<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="peace-on-earth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Peace on Earth</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Archer is wake!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Swan is flying!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gold against blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An Arrow is lying.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is hunting in heaven⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleep safe till to-morrow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Bears are abroad!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Eagle is screaming!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gold against blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their eyes are gleaming!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleep!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleep safe till to-morrow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Sisters lie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their arms intertwining;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gold against blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their hair is shining!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Serpent writhes!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Orion is listening!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gold against blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His sword is glistening!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleep!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is hunting in heaven⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleep safe till to-morrow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="postlude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Postlude</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now that I have cooled to you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let there be gold of tarnished masonry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Temples soothed by the sun to ruin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That sleep utterly.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give me hand for the dances,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ripples at Philae, in and out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lips, my Lesbian,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wall flowers that once were flame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your hair is my Carthage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my arms the bow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And our words arrows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To shoot the stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who from that misty sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swarm to destroy us.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But you there beside me⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh how shall I defy you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who wound me in the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With breasts shining</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like Venus and like Mars?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The night that is shouting Jason</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the loud eaves rattle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As with waves above me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blue at the prow of my desire.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="first-praise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">First Praise</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Lady of dusk wood fastnesses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou art my Lady.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have known the crisp splintering leaf-tread with thee on before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>White, slender through green saplings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have lain by thee on the grey forest floor</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beside thee, my Lady.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lady of rivers strewn with stones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Only thou art my Lady.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where thousand the freshets are crowded like peasants to a fair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clear skinned, wild from seclusion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They jostle white armed down the tent-bordered thoroughfare</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Praising my Lady.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="homage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Homage</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Elvira, by love’s grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There goeth before you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A clear radiance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which maketh all vain souls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Candles when noon is.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The loud clangour of pretenders</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Melteth before you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the roll of carts passing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you come silently</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And homage is given.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now the little by-path</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which leadeth to love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is again joyful with its many;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the great highway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is without passers.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-fools-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fool’s Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I tried to put a bird in a cage.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O fool that I am!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the bird was Truth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing merrily, Truth: I tried to put</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Truth in a cage!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when I had the bird in the cage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O fool that I am!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why, it broke my pretty cage.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing merrily, Truth; I tried to put</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Truth in a cage!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when the bird was flown from the cage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O fool that I am!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why, I had nor bird nor cage.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing merrily, Truth: I tried to put</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Truth in a cage!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heigh-ho! Truth in a cage.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="from-the-birth-of-venus-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">From “The Birth of Venus,” Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Come with us and play!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See, we have breasts as women!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">From your tents by the sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come play with us: it is forbidden!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Come with us and play!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lo, bare, straight legs in the water!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">By our boats we stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Then swimming away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come to us: it is forbidden!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Come with us and play!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See, we are tall as women!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Our eyes are keen:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Our hair is bright:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our voices speak outright:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We revel in the sea’s green!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Come play:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">It is forbidden!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="immortal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Immortal</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, there is one thing braver than all flowers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Richer than clear gems; wider than the sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Immortal and unchangeable; whose powers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Transcend reason, love and sanity!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thou, beloved, art that godly thing!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Marvellous and terrible; in glance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An injured Juno roused against Heaven’s King!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And thy name, lovely One, is Ignorance.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mezzo-forte" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mezzo Forte</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Take that, damn you; and that!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And here’s a rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To make it right again!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">God knows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I’m sorry, Grace; but then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s not my fault if you will be a cat.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-after-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An After Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">So art thou broken in upon me, Apollo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Through a splendour of purple garments⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Held by the yellow-haired Clymène</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To clothe the white of thy shoulders⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bare from the day’s leaping of horses.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is strange to me, here in the modern twilight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="crude-lament" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Crude Lament</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Mother of flames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men that went ahunting</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are asleep in the snow drifts.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You have kept the fire burning!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crooked fingers that pull</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fuel from among the wet leaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mother of flames</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You have kept the fire burning!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The young wives have fallen asleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With wet hair, weeping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mother of flames!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The young men raised the heavy spears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And are gone prowling in the darkness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O mother of flames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You who have kept the fire burning!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lo, I am helpless!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would God they had taken me with them!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ordeal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ordeal</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">O Crimson salamander,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Because of love’s whim</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">sacred!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swim</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">the winding flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Predestined to disman him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bring our fellow home to us again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Swim in with watery fang,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Gnaw out and drown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fire roots that circle him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the Hell-flower dies down</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And he comes home again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">Aye, bring him home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O crimson salamander,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I may see he is unchanged with burning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then have your will with him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O crimson salamander.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-death-of-franco-of-cologne-his-prophecy-of-beethoven" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Death of Franco of Cologne: His Prophecy of Beethoven</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is useless, good woman, useless: the spark fails me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God! yet when the might of it all assails me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems impossible that I cannot do it.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet I cannot. They were right, and they all knew it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Years ago, but I⁠—never! I have persisted</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blindly (they say) and now I am old. I have resisted</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Everything, but now, now the strife’s ended.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fire’s out; the old cloak has been mended</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the last time, the soul peers through its tatters.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put a light by and leave me; nothing more matters</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now; I am done; I am at last well broken!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet, by God, I’ll still leave them a token</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That they’ll swear it was no dead man writ it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A morsel that they’ll mark well the day they bit it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That there’ll be sand between their gross teeth to crunch yet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When goodman Gabriel blows his concluding trumpet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leave me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And now, little black eyes, come you out here!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, you’ve given me a lively, lasting bout, year</span>
				<br/>
				<span>After year to win you round me darlings!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Precious children, little gambollers! “farlings”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They might have called you once, “nearlings”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I call you now, I, first of all the yearlings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon this plain, for I it was that tore you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of chaos! It was I bore you!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, you little children that go playing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the five-barred gate, and will still be straying</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spite of all that I have ever told you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of counterpoint and cadence which does not hold you⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more than chains will for this or that strange reason,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you’re always at some new loving treason</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To be away from me, laughing, mocking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Witlessly, perhaps, but for all that forever knocking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At this stanchion door of your poor father’s heart till⁠—oh, well</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At least you’ve shown that you can grow well</span>
				<br/>
				<span>However much you evade me faster, faster.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, black eyes, some day you’ll get a master,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he will come! He shall, he must come!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when he finishes and the burning dust from</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His wheels settles⁠—what shall men see then?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You, you, you, my own lovely children!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aye, all of you, thus with hands together</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Playing on the hill or there in a tether,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or running free, but all mine! Aye, my very namesakes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall be his proper fame’s stakes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he shall lead you!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he shall meed you!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he shall build you gold palaces!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he shall wine you from clear chalices!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I have seen it! I have seen it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Written where the world-clouds screen it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From other eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the bronze gates of paradise!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="portent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Portent</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Red cradle of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In you</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">The dusky child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleeps fast till his might</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shall be piled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sinew on sinew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Red cradle of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dusky child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleeping sits upright.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lo how</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">The winds blow now!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He pillows back;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The winds are again mild.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When he stretches his arms out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Red cradle of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The alarms shout</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From bare tree to tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wild</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">In afright!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mighty shall he be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Red cradle of the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The dusky child!!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="con-brio" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Con Brio</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Miserly, is the best description of that poor fool</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who holds Lancelot to have been a morose fellow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dolefully brooding over the events which had naturally to follow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The high time of his deed with Guinevere.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has a sick historical sight, if I judge rightly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To believe any such thing as that ever occurred.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, by the god of blood, what else is it that has deterred</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Us all from an out and out defiance of fear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But this same perdamnable miserliness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which cries about our necks how we shall have less and less</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than we have now if we spend too wantonly?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bah, this sort of slither is below contempt!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the same vein we should have apple trees exempt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From bearing anything but pink blossoms all the year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fixed permanent lest their bellies wax unseemly, and the dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Innocent days of them be wasted quite.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How can we have less? Have we not the deed?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lancelot thought little, spent his gold and rode to fight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mounted, if God was willing, on a good steed.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ad-infinitum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ad Infinitum</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Still I bring flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Although you fling them at my feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until none stays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That is not struck across with wounds:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flowers and flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That you may break them utterly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As you have always done.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Sure happily</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I still bring flowers, flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Knowing how all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are crumpled in your praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And may not live</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To speak a lesser thing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="el-romancero" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Translations from the Spanish, “El Romancero”</h2>
			<section id="el-romancero-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Although you do your best to regard me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With an air seeming offended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Never can you deny, when all’s ended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Calm eyes, that you <em>did</em> regard me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>However much you’re at pains to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Offend me, by which I may suffer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What offence is there can make up for</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The great good he finds who attains you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For though with mortal fear you reward me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until my sorry sense is plenished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never can you deny, when all’s ended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calm eyes, that you did regard me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thinking thus to dismay me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You beheld me with disdain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But instead of destroying the gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fact with doubled good you paid me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For though you show them how hardly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They keep off from leniency bended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never can you deny, when all’s ended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calm eyes, that you did regard me.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="el-romancero-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, little green eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, little eyes of mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, Heaven be willing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you think of me somewise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The day of departure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You came full of grieving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to see I was leaving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tears ‘gan to start sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the heavy torture</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sorrows unbrightened</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you lie down at night and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When there to you dreams rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, Heaven be willing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you think of me somewise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Deep is my assurance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of you, little green eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in truth you realise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something of my durance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eyes of hope’s fair assurance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And good premonition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By virtue of whose condition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All green colours I prize.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, Heaven be willing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you think of me somewise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Would God I might know you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which quarter bended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why comprehended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sighings overflow you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if you must go through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some certain despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that you lose his care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who was faithful always.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, Heaven be willing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you think of me these days.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Through never a moment</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve known how to live lest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All my thoughts but as one pressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You-ward for their concernment.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May God send chastisement</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If in this I belie me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if it truth be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My own little green eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, Heaven be willing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you think of me somewise.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="el-romancero-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Poplars of the meadow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fountains of Madrid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I am absent from you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All are slandering me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Each of you is telling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How evil my chance is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind among the branches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fountains in their welling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To every one telling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were happy to see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I am absent from you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All are slandering me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With good right I may wonder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that at my last leaving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plants with sighs heaving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the waters in tears were.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you played double, never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thought I this could be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I am absent from you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All are slandering me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There full in your presence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Music you sought to waken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Later I’m forsaken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since you are ware of my absence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God, wilt Thou give me patience</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here while suffer I ye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I am absent from you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All are slandering me.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="el-romancero-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The day draweth nearer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And morrow ends our meeting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere they take thee sleeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be up⁠—away, my treasure!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Soft, leave her breasts all unheeded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far hence though the master still remaineth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For soon uptil our earth regaineth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun all embraces dividing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>N’er grew pleasure all unimpeded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>N’er was delight lest passion won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the wise man the fit occasion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has not yet refused a full measure:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be up⁠—away, my treasure!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If that my love thy bosom inflameth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With honest purpose and just intention,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To free me from my soul’s contention</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give over joys the day shameth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who thee lameth he also me lameth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my good grace builds all in thy good grace;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be up⁠—away! Fear leaveth place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thou art here, no more unto pleasure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be up⁠—away, my treasure!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Although thou with a sleep art wresting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis rightful thou bringst it close,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That of the favour one meeting shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An hundred may hence be attesting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis fitting too thou shouldst be mindful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the ease which we lose now, in kind, full</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a promise holds for our leisure;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere they take thee sleeping;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be up⁠—away, my treasure!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="hic-jacet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hic Jacet</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The coroner’s merry little children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have such twinkling brown eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their father is not of gay men</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And their mother jocular in no wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet the coroner’s merry little children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Laugh so easily.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They laugh because they prosper.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fruit for them is upon all branches.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lo! how they jibe at loss, for</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Kind heaven fills their little paunches!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the coroner’s merry, merry children</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Who laugh so easily.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="contemporania" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Contemporania</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The corner of a great rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Steamy with the country</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has fallen upon my garden.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I go back and forth now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the little leaves follow me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Talking of the great rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of branches broken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the farmer’s curses!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I go back and forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this corner of a garden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the green shoots follow me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Praising the great rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We are not curst together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The leaves and I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Framing devices, flower devices</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And other ways of peopling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The barren country.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Truly it was a very great rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That makes the little leaves follow me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-wish-myself-courage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Wish Myself Courage</h2>
			<p>
				<span>On the day when youth is no more upon me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will write of the leaves and the moon in a tree top!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will sing then the song, long in the making⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the stress of youth is put away from me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How can I ever be written out as men say?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surely it is merely an interference with the long song⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This that I am now doing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when the spring of it is worn like the old moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the eaten leaves are lace upon the cold earth⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then I will rise up in my great desire⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long at the birth⁠—and sing me the youth-song!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sub-terra" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sub Terra</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Where shall I find you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you my grotesque fellows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that I seek everywhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to make up my band?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>None, not one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with the earthy tastes I require;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the burrowing pride that rises</span>
				<br/>
				<span>subtly as on a bush in May.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where are you this day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you my seven year locusts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with cased wings?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah my beauties how I long⁠—!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That harvest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that shall be your advent⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>thrusting up through the grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>up under the weeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>answering me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span><em>that</em> shall be satisfying!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The light shall leap and snap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that day as with a million lashes!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, I have you; yes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you are about me in a sense:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>playing under the blue pools</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that are my windows⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but they shut you out still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>there in the half light.</span>
				<span>For the simple truth is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that though I see you clear enough</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you are not there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is not that⁠—it is you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you I want!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>—God, if I could fathom</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">the guts of shadows!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You to come with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>poking into negro houses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with their gloom and smell!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In among children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>leaping around a dead dog!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mimicking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>onto the lawns of the rich!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to go with me a-tip-toe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>head down under heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>nostrils lipping the wind!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pastoral-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pastoral</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When I was younger</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it was plain to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I must make something of myself.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Older now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I walk back streets</span>
				<br/>
				<span>admiring the houses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the very poor:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>roof out of line with sides</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the yards cluttered</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with old chicken wire, ashes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>furniture gone wrong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the fences and outhouses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>built of barrel-staves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and parts of boxes, all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>if I am fortunate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>smeared a bluish green</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that properly weathered</span>
				<br/>
				<span>pleases me best</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of all colors.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i5">No one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>will believe this</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of vast import to the nation.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="chickory-and-daisies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Chickory and Daisies</h2>
			<section id="chickory-and-daisies-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lift your flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on bitter stems</span>
					<br/>
					<span>chickory!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lift them up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>out of the scorched ground!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bear no foliage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but give yourself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>wholly to that!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Strain under them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you bitter stems</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that no beast eats⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and scorn greyness!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the heat with them:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cool!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>luxuriant! sky-blue!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The earth cracks and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is shriveled up;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the wind moans piteously;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the sky goes out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if you should fail.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="chickory-and-daisies-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I saw a child with daisies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for weaving into the hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>tear the stems</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with her teeth!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="metric-figure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Metric Figure</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There is a bird in the poplars!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is the sun!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The leaves are little yellow fish</span>
				<br/>
				<span>swimming in the river.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bird skims above them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>day is on his wings.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Phoebus!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is he that is making</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the great gleam among the poplars!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is his singing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>outshines the noise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of leaves clashing in the wind.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="woman-walking" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Woman Walking</h2>
			<p>
				<span>An oblique cloud of purple smoke</span>
				<br/>
				<span>across a milky silhouette</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of house sides and tiny trees⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a little village⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that ends in a saw edge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of mist-covered trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on a sheet of grey sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To the right, jutting in,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a dark crimson corner of roof.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the left, half a tree:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">—what a blessing it is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to see you in the street again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>powerful woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>coming with swinging haunches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>breasts straight forward,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>supple shoulders, full arms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and strong, soft hands (I’ve felt them)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>carrying the heavy basket.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I might well see you oftener!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for a different reason</span>
				<br/>
				<span>than the fresh eggs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you bring us so regularly.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, you, young as I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with boney brows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>kind grey eyes and a kind mouth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you walking out toward me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from that dead hillside!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I might well see you oftener.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gulls" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gulls</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My townspeople, beyond in the great world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are many with whom it were far more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>profitable for me to live than here with you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These whirr about me calling, calling!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and for my own part I answer them, loud as I can,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but they, being free, pass!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I remain! Therefore, listen!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For you will not soon have another singer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>First I say this: you have seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the strange birds, have you not, that sometimes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rest upon our river in winter?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let them cause you to think well then of the storms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that drive many to shelter. These things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>do not happen without reason.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the next thing I say is this:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I saw an eagle once circling against the clouds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>over one of our principal churches⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Easter, it was⁠—a beautiful day!⁠—:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>three gulls came from above the river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and crossed slowly seaward!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, I know you have your own hymns, I have heard them⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and because I knew they invoked some great protector</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I could not be angry with you, no matter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>how much they outraged true music⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You see, it is not necessary for us to leap at each other,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and, as I told you, in the end</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the gulls moved seaward very quietly.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="appeal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Appeal</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You who are so mighty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>crimson salamander,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hear me once more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I lay among the half burned sticks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at the edge of the fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fiend was creeping in.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I felt the cold tips of fingers⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O crimson salamander!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Give me one little flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>one!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that I may bind it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>protectingly about the wrist</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of him that flung me here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>here upon the very center!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is my song.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="in-harbor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In Harbor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Surely there, among the great docks, is peace, my mind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>there with the ships moored in the river.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go out, timid child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and snuggle in among the great ships talking so quietly.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Maybe you will even fall asleep near them and be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lifted into one of their laps, and in the morning⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is always the morning in which to remember it all!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of what are they gossiping? God knows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And God knows it matters little for we cannot understand them.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet it is certainly of the sea, of that there can be no question.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is a quiet sound. Rest! That’s all I care for now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The smell of them will put us to sleep presently.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smell! It is the sea water mingling here into the river⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at least so it seems⁠—perhaps it is something else⁠—but what matter?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sea water! It is quiet and smooth here!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How slowly they move, little by little trying</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the hawsers that drop and groan with their agony.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, it is certainly of the high sea they are talking.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="winter-sunset" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Winter Sunset</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Then I raised my head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and stared out over</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the blue February waste</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the blue bank of hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with stars on it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in strings and festoons⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but above that:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>one opaque</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stone of a cloud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>just on the hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>left and right</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as far as I could see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and above that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a red streak, then</span>
				<br/>
				<span>icy blue sky!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It was a fearful thing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to come into a man’s heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at that time: that stone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>over the little blinking stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>they’d set there.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="apology" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Apology</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Why do I write today?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The beauty of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the terrible faces</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of our nonentities</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stirs me to it:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>colored women</span>
				<br/>
				<span>day workers⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>old and experienced⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>returning home at dusk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in cast off clothing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>faces like</span>
				<br/>
				<span>old Florentine oak.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Also</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>the set pieces</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of your faces stir me⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>leading citizens⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the same way.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pastoral-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pastoral</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The little sparrows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hop ingenuously</span>
				<br/>
				<span>about the pavement</span>
				<br/>
				<span>quarreling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with sharp voices</span>
				<br/>
				<span>over those things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that interest them.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we who are wiser</span>
				<br/>
				<span>shut ourselves in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on either hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and no one knows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>whether we think good</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or evil.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Meanwhile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the old man who goes about</span>
				<br/>
				<span>gathering dog-lime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>walks in the gutter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>without looking up</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and his tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is more majestic than</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that of the Episcopal minister</span>
				<br/>
				<span>approaching the pulpit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of a Sunday.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">These things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>astonish me beyond words.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="love-song-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Daisies are broken</span>
				<br/>
				<span>petals are news of the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stems lift to the grass tops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>they catch on shoes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>part in the middle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>leave root and leaves secure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Black branches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>carry square leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the wood’s top.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They hold firm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>break with a roar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>show the white!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your moods are slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the shedding of leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and sure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the return in May!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We walked</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in your father’s grove</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and saw the great oaks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lying with roots</span>
				<br/>
				<span>ripped from the ground.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="m-b" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">M. B.</abbr>
			</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Winter has spent this snow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>out of envy, but spring is here!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sits at the breakfast table</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in his yellow hair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and disdains even the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>walking outside</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in spangled slippers:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He looks out: there is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a glare of lights</span>
				<br/>
				<span>before a theater,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a sparkling lady</span>
				<br/>
				<span>passes quickly to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the seclusion of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>her carriage.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Presently</span>
				<br/>
				<span>under the dirty, wavy heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of a borrowed room he will make</span>
				<br/>
				<span>re-inhaled tobacco smoke</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his clouds and try them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the sky’s limits!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tract" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Tract</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I will teach you my townspeople</span>
				<br/>
				<span>how to perform a funeral⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for you have it over a troop</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of artists⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>unless one should scour the world⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you have the ground sense necessary.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>See! the hearse leads.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I begin with a design for a hearse.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Christ’s sake not black⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>nor white either⁠—and not polished!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let it be weathered⁠—like a farm wagon⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with gilt wheels (this could be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>applied fresh at small expense)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or no wheels at all:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a rough dray to drag over the ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Knock the glass out!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My God⁠—glass, my townspeople!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For what purpose? Is it for the dead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to look out or for us to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>how well he is housed or to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the flowers or the lack of them⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or what?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To keep the rain and snow from him?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He will have a heavier rain soon:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>pebbles and dirt and what not.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let there be no glass⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and no upholstery phew!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and no little brass rollers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and small easy wheels on the bottom⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my townspeople what are you thinking of?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A rough plain hearse then</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with gilt wheels and no top at all.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On this the coffin lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>by its own weight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i7">No wreathes please⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>especially no hot house flowers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some common memento is better,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>something he prized and is known by:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his old clothes⁠—a few books perhaps⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God knows what! You realize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>how we are about these things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my townspeople⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>something will be found⁠—anything</span>
				<br/>
				<span>even flowers if he had come to that.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So much for the hearse.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For heaven’s sake though see to the driver!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take off the silk hat! In fact</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that’s no place at all for him⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>up there unceremoniously</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dragging our friend out to his own dignity!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring him down⁠—bring him down!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Low and inconspicuous! I’d not have him ride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on the wagon at all⁠—damn him⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the undertaker’s understrapper!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let him hold the reins</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and walk at the side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and inconspicuously too!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then briefly as to yourselves:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walk behind⁠—as they do in France,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>seventh class, or if you ride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hell take curtains! Go with some show</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of inconvenience; sit openly⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the weather as to grief.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or do you think you can shut grief in?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What⁠—from us? We who have perhaps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>nothing to lose? Share with us</span>
				<br/>
				<span>share with us⁠—it will be money</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in your pockets.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Go now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I think you are ready.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="promenade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Promenade</h2>
			<section id="promenade-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, mind, here we have</span>
					<br/>
					<span>our little son beside us:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a little diversion before breakfast!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come, we’ll walk down the road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>till the bacon will be frying.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We might better be idle?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A poem might come of it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, be useful. Save annoyance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to Flossie and besides⁠—the wind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s cold. It blows our</span>
					<br/>
					<span>old pants out! It makes us shiver!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See the heavy trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shifting their weight before it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let us be trees, an old house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a hill with grass on it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The baby’s arms are blue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come, move! Be quieted!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="promenade-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So. We’ll sit here now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and throw pebbles into</span>
					<br/>
					<span>this water-trickle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Splash the water up!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Splash it up, Sonny!) Laugh!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hit it there deep under the grass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See it splash! Ah, mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>see it splash! It is alive!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throw pieces of broken leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into it. They’ll pass through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No! Yes⁠—just!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Away now for the cows! But⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s cold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s getting dark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s going to rain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No further!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="promenade-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oh then, a wreath! Let’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>refresh something they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>used to write well of.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Two fern plumes. Strip them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the mid-rib along one side.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bind the tips with a grass stem.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bend and intertwist the stalks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the back. So!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! now we are crowned!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now we are a poet!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Quickly!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bunch of little flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for Flossie⁠—the little ones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>only:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">a red clover, one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>blue heal-all, a sprig of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bone-set, one primrose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a head of Indian tobacco, this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>magenta speck and this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>little lavender!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Home now, my mind!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sonny’s arms are icy, I tell you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and have breakfast!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="el-hombre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">El Hombre</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It’s a strange courage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you give me ancient star:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shine alone in the sunrise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>toward which you lend no part!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hero" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hero</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Fool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>put your adventures</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into those things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>which break ships⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>not female flesh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let there pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>over the mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the waters of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>four oceans, the airs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of four skies!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Return hollow-bellied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>keen-eyed, hard!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A simple scar or two.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Little girls will come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bringing you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>roses for your button-hole.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="libertad-igualdad-fraternidad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Libertad! Igualdad! Fraternidad!</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You sullen pig of a man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you force me into the mud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with your stinking ash-cart!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brother!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">—if we were rich</span>
				<br/>
				<span>we’d stick our chests out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and hold our heads high!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is dreams that have destroyed us.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There is no more pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in horses or in rein holding.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We sit hunched together brooding</span>
				<br/>
				<span>our fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i5">Well⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>all things turn bitter in the end</span>
				<br/>
				<span>whether you choose the right or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the left way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">and⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dreams are not a bad thing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canthara" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canthara</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The old black-man showed me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>how he had been shocked</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in his youth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>by six women, dancing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a set-dance, stark naked below</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the skirts raised round</span>
				<br/>
				<span>their breasts:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">bellies flung forward</span>
				<br/>
				<span>knees flying!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">—while</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his gestures, against the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>tiled wall of the dingy bath-room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>swished with ecstasy to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the familiar music of</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">his old emotion.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mujer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mujer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, black Persian cat!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was not your life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>already cursed with offspring?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We took you for rest to that old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yankee farm⁠—so lonely</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and with so many field mice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the long grass⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and you return to us</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in this condition⁠—!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, black Persian cat.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="summer-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Summer Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Wanderer moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>smiling a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>faintly ironical smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at this</span>
				<br/>
				<span>brilliant, dew-moistened</span>
				<br/>
				<span>summer morning,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a detached</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sleepily indifferent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>smile, a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>wanderer’s smile,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>if I should</span>
				<br/>
				<span>buy a shirt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>your color and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>put on a necktie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sky blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where would they carry me?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="love-song-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sweep the house clean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hang fresh curtains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the windows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>put on a new dress</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and come with me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The elm is scattering</span>
				<br/>
				<span>its little loaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of sweet smells</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from a white sky!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who shall hear of us</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the time to come?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let him say there was</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a burst of fragrance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from black branches.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="foreign" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Foreign</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Artsybashev is a Russian.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am an American.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us wonder, my townspeople,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>if Artsybashev tends his own fires</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as I do, gets himself cursed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for the baby’s failure to thrive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>loosens windows for the woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>who cleans his parlor⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or has he neat servants</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and a quiet library, an</span>
				<br/>
				<span>intellectual wife perhaps and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>no children⁠—an apartment</span>
				<br/>
				<span>somewhere in a back street or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lives alone or with his mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or sister⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I wonder, my townspeople,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>if Artsybashev looks upon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>himself the more concernedly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or succeeds any better than I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in laying the world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I wonder which is the bigger</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fool in his own mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These are shining topics</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my townspeople but⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hardly of great moment.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-prelude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Prelude</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I know only the bare rocks of today.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In these lies my brown sea-weed,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>green quartz veins bent through the wet shale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in these lie my pools left by the tide⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>quiet, forgetting waves;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on these stiffen white star fish;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on these I slip bare footed!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whispers of the fishy air touch my body;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Sisters,” I say to them.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="history" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">History</h2>
			<section id="history-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A wind might blow a lotus petal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over the pyramids⁠—but not this wind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Summer is a dried leaf.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Leaves stir this way then that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on the baked asphalt, the wheels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of motor cars rush over them,⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">gas smells mingle with leaf smells.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, Sunday, day of worship!!!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The steps to the museum are high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Worshippers pass in and out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nobody comes here today.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I come here to mingle faiance dug</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from the tomb, turquoise colored</span>
					<br/>
					<span>necklaces and belched wind from the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stomach; delicately veined basins</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of agate, cracked and discolored and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the stink of stale urine!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enter! Elbow in at the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men? Women?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Simpering, clay fetish-faces counting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>through the turnstile.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Ah!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="history-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>This sarcophagus contained the body</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of Uresh-Nai, priestess to the goddess Mut,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mother of All⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Run your finger against this edge!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—here went the chisel!⁠—and think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of an arrogance endured six thousand years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>without a flaw!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But love is an oil to embalm the body.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love is a packet of spices, a strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>smelling liquid to be squirted into</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the thigh. No?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love rubbed on a bald head will make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hair⁠—and after? Love is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a lice comber!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Gnats on dung!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The chisel is in your hand, the block</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is before you, cut as I shall dictate:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>this is the coffin of Uresh-Nai,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>priestess to the sky goddess,⁠—built</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to endure forever!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Carve the inside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with the image of my death in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>little lines of figures three fingers high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put a lid on it cut with Mut bending over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the earth, for my headpiece, and in the year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to be chosen I will rouse, the lid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shall be lifted and I will walk about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the temple where they have rested me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and eat the air of the place:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah⁠—these walls are high! This</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is in keeping.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="history-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The priestess has passed into her tomb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stone has taken up her spirit!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Granite over flesh: who will deny</span>
					<br/>
					<span>its advantages?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your death?⁠—water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>spilled upon the ground⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>though water will mount again into rose-leaves⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but you?⁠—would hold life still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>even as a memory, when it is over.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Benevolence is rare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Climb about this sarcophagus, read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>what is writ for you in these figures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hard as the granite that has held them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with so soft a hand the while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>your own flesh has been fifty times</span>
					<br/>
					<span>through the guts of oxen,⁠—read!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The rose-tree will have its donor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>even though he give stingily.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gift of some endures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ten years, the gift of some twenty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the gift of some for the time a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>great house rots and is torn down.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some give for a thousand years to men of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>one face, some for a thousand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to all men and some few to all men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>while granite holds an edge against</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the weather.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Judge then of love!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="history-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“My flesh is turned to stone. I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>have endured my summer. The flurry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of falling petals is ended. Lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the finger upon this granite. I was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>well desired and fully caressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>by many lovers but my flesh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>withered swiftly and my heart was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>never satisfied. Lay your hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upon the granite as a lover lays his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hand upon the thigh and upon the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>round breasts of her who is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>beside him, for now I will not wither,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>now I have thrown off secrecy, now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have walked naked into the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>now I have scattered my heavy beauty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the open market.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here I am with head high and a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>burning heart eagerly awaiting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>your caresses, whoever it may be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for granite is not harder than</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my love is open, runs loose among you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I arrogant against death! I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>who have endured! I worn against</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the years!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="history-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But it is five o’clock. Come!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Life is good⁠—enjoy it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A walk in the park while the day lasts.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will go with you. Look! this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>northern scenery is not the Nile, but⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>these benches⁠—the yellow and purple dusk⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the moon there⁠—these tired people⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the lights on the water!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are not these Jews and⁠—Ethiopians?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world is young, surely! Young</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and colored like⁠—a girl that has come upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a lover! Will that do?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="winter-quiet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Winter Quiet</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Limb to limb, mouth to mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with the bleached grass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>silver mist lies upon the back yards</span>
				<br/>
				<span>among the outhouses.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">The dwarf trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>pirouette awkwardly to it⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>whirling round on one toe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the big tree smiles and glances</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i11">upward!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tense with suppressed excitement</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the fences watch where the ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>has humped an aching shoulder for</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">the ecstasy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dawn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dawn</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ecstatic bird songs pound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the hollow vastness of the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with metallic clinkings⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>beating color up into it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at a far edge⁠—beating it, beating it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with rising, triumphant ardor,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stirring it into warmth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>quickening in it a spreading change,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bursting wildly against it as</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dividing the horizon, a heavy sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lifts himself⁠—is lifted⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bit by bit above the edge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of things,⁠—runs free at last</span>
				<br/>
				<span>out into the open⁠—! lumbering</span>
				<br/>
				<span>glorified in full release upward⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i11">songs cease.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="good-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Good Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In brilliant gas light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I turn the kitchen spigot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and watch the water plash</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into the clean white sink.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the grooved drain-board</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to one side is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a glass filled with parsley⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>crisped green.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Waiting</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for the water to freshen⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I glance at the spotless floor⁠—:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a pair of rubber sandals</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lie side by side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>under the wall-table,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>all is in order for the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Waiting, with a glass in my hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—three girls in crimson satin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>pass close before me on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the murmurous background of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the crowded opera⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">it is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>memory playing the clown⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>three vague, meaningless girls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>full of smells and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the rustling sound of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>cloth rubbing on cloth and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>little slippers on carpet⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>high-school French</span>
				<br/>
				<span>spoken in a loud voice!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Parsley in a glass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>still and shining,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>brings me back. I take my drink</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and yawn deliciously.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am ready for bed.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="danse-russe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Danse Russe</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If I when my wife is sleeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the baby and Kathleen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are sleeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the sun is a flame-white disc</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in silken mists</span>
				<br/>
				<span>above shining trees,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>if I in my north room</span>
				<br/>
				<span>danse naked, grotesquely</span>
				<br/>
				<span>before my mirror</span>
				<br/>
				<span>waving my shirt round my head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and singing softly to myself:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“I am lonely, lonely.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was born to be lonely.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am best so!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If I admire my arms, my face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my shoulders, flanks, buttocks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the yellow drawn shades,⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>who shall say I am not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the happy genius of my household?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="portrait-of-a-woman-in-bed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Portrait of a Woman in Bed</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s my things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>drying in the corner:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that blue skirt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>joined to the grey shirt⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’m sick of trouble!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lift the covers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>if you want me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and you’ll see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the rest of my clothes⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>though it would be cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lying with nothing on!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I won’t work</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and I’ve got no cash.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What are you going to do</span>
				<br/>
				<span>about it?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—and no jewelry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(the crazy fools)</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I’ve my two eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and a smooth face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and here’s this! look!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it’s high!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s brains and blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in there⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my name’s Robitza!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Corsets</span>
				<br/>
				<span>can go to the devil⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and drawers along with them!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What do I care!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My two boys?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—they’re keen!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let the rich lady</span>
				<br/>
				<span>care for them⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>they’ll beat the school</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>let them go to the gutter⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that ends trouble.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This house is empty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>isn’t it?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then it’s mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>because I need it.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, I won’t starve</span>
				<br/>
				<span>while there’s the Bible</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to make them feed me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Try to help me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>if you want trouble</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or leave me alone⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that ends trouble.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The county physician</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is a damned fool</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>can go to hell!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You could have closed the door</span>
				<br/>
				<span>when you came in;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>do it when you go out.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’m tired.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="virtue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Virtue</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now? Why⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>whirl-pools of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>orange and purple flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>feather twists of chrome</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on a green ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>funneling down upon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the steaming phallus-head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the mad sun himself⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>blackened crimson!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i9">Now?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it is the smile of her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the smell of her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the vulgar inviting mouth of her!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is⁠—Oh, nothing new</span>
				<br/>
				<span>nothing that lasts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>an eternity, nothing worth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>putting out to interest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>nothing⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but the fixing of an eye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>concretely upon emptiness!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come! here are⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>cross-eyed men, a boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with a patch, men walking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in their shirts, men in hats</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dark men, a pale man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with little black moustaches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and a dirty white coat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fat men with pudgy faces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>thin faces, crooked faces</span>
				<br/>
				<span>slit eyes, grey eyes, black eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>old men with dirty beards,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>men in vests with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>gold watch chains. Come!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="conquest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Conquest</h2>
				<p epub:type="dedication">Dedicated to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">F. W.</abbr></p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Hard, chilly colors:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>straw grey, frost grey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the grey of frozen ground:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and you, O sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>close above the horizon!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is I holds you⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>half against the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>half against a black tree trunk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>icily resplendent!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lie there, blue city, mine at last⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rimming the banked blue grey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and rise, indescribable smoky yellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into the overpowering white!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="portrait-of-a-young-man-with-a-bad-heart" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Portrait of a Young Man with a Bad Heart</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Have I seen her?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only through the window</span>
				<br/>
				<span>across the street.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If I go meeting her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on the corner</span>
				<br/>
				<span>some damned fool</span>
				<br/>
				<span>will go blabbing it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the old man and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>she’ll get hell.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s a queer old bastard!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every time he sees me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you’d think</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wanted to kill him.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I figure it out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it’s best to let things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stay as they are⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for a while at least.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It’s hard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>giving up the thing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you want most</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the world, but with this</span>
				<br/>
				<span>damned pump of mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>liable to give out⁠ ⁠…</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She’s a good kid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and I’d hate to hurt her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but if she can get over it⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>it’d be the best thing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="keller-gegen-dom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Keller Gegen Dom</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Witness, would you⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>one more young man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the evening of his love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hurrying to confession:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>steps down a gutter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>crosses a street</span>
				<br/>
				<span>goes in at a doorway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>opens for you⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like some great flower⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a room filled with lamplight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or whirls himself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>obediently to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the curl of a hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>some wind-dancing afternoon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lies for you in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the futile darkness of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a wall, sets stars dancing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the crack of a leaf⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>and⁠—leaning his head away⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>snuffs (secretly)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the bitter powder from</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his thumb’s hollow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>takes your blessing and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>goes home to bed?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Witness instead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>whether you like it or not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a dark vinegar smelling place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from which trickles</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the chuckle of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>beginning laughter</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It strikes midnight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="smell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Smell!</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh strong ridged and deeply hollowed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>nose of mine! what will you not be smelling?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What tactless asses we are, you and I, boney nose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>always indiscriminate, always unashamed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and now it is the souring flowers of the bedraggled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>poplars: a festering pulp on the wet earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>beneath them. With what deep thirst</span>
				<br/>
				<span>we quicken our desires</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to that rank odor of a passing spring-time!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can you not be decent? Can you not reserve your ardors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for something less unlovely? What girl will care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for us, do you think, if we continue in these ways?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must you taste everything? Must you know everything?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must you have a part in everything?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ballet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ballet</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Are you not weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>great gold cross</span>
				<br/>
				<span>shining in the wind⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are you not weary</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of seeing the stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>turning over you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>going to his rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and you frozen with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a great lie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that leaves you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rigid as a knight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on a marble coffin?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>—and you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>higher, still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">robin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>untwisting a song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from the bare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>top-twigs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are you not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>weary of labor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>even the labor of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a song?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come down⁠—join me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for I am lonely.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>First it will be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a quiet pace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to ease our stiffness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but as the west yellows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you will be ready!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here in the middle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the roadway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>we will fling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>ourselves round</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with dust lilies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>till we are bound in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>their twining stems!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We will tear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>their flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with arms flashing!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the astonished stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>push aside</span>
				<br/>
				<span>their curtains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>they will see us</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fall exhausted where</span>
				<br/>
				<span>wheels and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the pounding feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of horses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>will crush forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>our laughter.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sympathetic-portrait-of-a-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sympathetic Portrait of a Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The murderer’s little daughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>who is barely ten years old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>jerks her shoulders</span>
				<br/>
				<span>right and left</span>
				<br/>
				<span>so as to catch a glimpse of me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>without turning round.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her skinny little arms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>wrap themselves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>this way then that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>reversely about her body!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nervously</span>
				<br/>
				<span>she crushes her straw hat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>about her eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and tilts her head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to deepen the shadow⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>smiling excitedly!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As best as she can</span>
				<br/>
				<span>she hides herself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the full sunlight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>her cordy legs writhing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>beneath the little flowered dress</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that leaves them bare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from mid-thigh to ankle⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why has she chosen me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for the knife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that darts along her smile?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ogre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ogre</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sweet child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>little girl with well shaped legs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you cannot touch the thoughts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I put over and under and around you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is fortunate for they would</span>
				<br/>
				<span>burn you to an ash otherwise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your petals would be quite curled up.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This is all beyond you⁠—no doubt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>yet you do feel the brushings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the fine needles;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the tentative lines of your whole body</span>
				<br/>
				<span>prove it to me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>so does your fear of me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>your shyness;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>likewise the toy baby cart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that you are pushing⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and besides, mother has begun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to dress your hair in a knot.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These are my excuses.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="riposte" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Riposte</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love is like water or the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my townspeople;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it cleanses, and dissipates evil gases.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is like poetry too</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and for the same reasons.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love is so precious</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my townspeople</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that if I were you I would</span>
				<br/>
				<span>have it under lock and key⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like the air or the Atlantic or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like poetry!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-old-men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Old Men</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Old men who have studied</span>
				<br/>
				<span>every leg show</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the city</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old men cut from touch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>by the perfumed music⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>polished or fleeced skulls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that stand before</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the whole theater</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in silent attitudes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of attention,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>old men who have taken precedence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>over young men</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and even over dark-faced</span>
				<br/>
				<span>husbands whose minds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are a street with arc-lights.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Solitary old men for whom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>we find no excuses⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I bow my head in shame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for those who malign you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old men</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the peaceful beer of impotence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>be yours!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pastoral-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pastoral</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If I say I have heard voices</span>
				<br/>
				<span>who will believe me?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">“None has dipped his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">in the black waters of the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">nor picked the yellow lilies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">that sway on their clear stems</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">and no tree has waited</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">long enough nor still enough</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">to touch fingers with the moon.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I looked and there were little frogs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with puffed out throats,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>singing in the slime.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="spring-strains" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Spring Strains</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In a tissue-thin monotone of blue-grey buds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>crowded erect with desire against</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the sky⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">tense blue-grey twigs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>slenderly anchoring them down, drawing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>them in⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">two blue-grey birds chasing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a third struggle in circles, angles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>swift convergings to a point that bursts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>instantly!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i5">Vibrant bowing limbs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>pull downward, sucking in the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that bulges from behind, plastering itself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against them in packed rifts, rock blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and dirty orange!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">But⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>(Hold hard, rigid jointed trees!)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the blinding and red-edged sun-blur⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>creeping energy, concentrated</span>
				<br/>
				<span>counterforce⁠—welds sky, buds, trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rivets them in one puckering hold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sticks through! Pulls the whole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>counter-pulling mass upward, to the right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>locks even the opaque, not yet defined</span>
				<br/>
				<span>ground in a terrific drag that is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>loosening the very tap-roots!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On a tissue-thin monotone of blue-grey buds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>two blue-grey birds, chasing a third,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at full cry! Now they are</span>
				<br/>
				<span>flung outward and up⁠—disappearing suddenly!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="trees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Trees</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Crooked, black tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on your little grey-black hillock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>ridiculously raised one step toward</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the infinite summits of the night:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>even you the few grey stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>draw upward into a vague melody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of harsh threads.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bent as you are from straining</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the bitter horizontals of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a north wind⁠—there below you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>how easily the long yellow notes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of poplars flow upward in a descending</span>
				<br/>
				<span>scale, each note secure in its own</span>
				<br/>
				<span>posture⁠—singularly woven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All voices are blent willingly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the heaving contra-bass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the dark but you alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>warp yourself passionately to one side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in your eagerness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-portrait-in-greys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Portrait in Greys</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Will it never be possible</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to separate you from your greyness?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must you be always sinking backward</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into your grey-brown landscapes⁠—and trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>always in the distance, always against</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a grey sky?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Must I be always</span>
				<br/>
				<span>moving counter to you? Is there no place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where we can be at peace together</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the motion of our drawing apart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>be altogether taken up?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">I see myself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>standing upon your shoulders touching</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a grey, broken sky⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but you, weighted down with me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>yet gripping my ankles⁠—move</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">laboriously on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where it is level and undisturbed by colors.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="invitation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Invitation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You who had the sense</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to choose me such a mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you who had the indifference</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to create me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you who went to some pains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to leave hands off me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the formative stages,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>(I thank you most for that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>perhaps)</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">but you who</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with an iron head, first,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fiercest and with strongest love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>brutalized me into strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>old dew-lap⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have reached the stage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where I am teaching myself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to laugh.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">Come on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>take a walk with me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="divertimiento" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Divertimiento</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Miserable little woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in a brown coat⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i9">quit whining!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My hand for you!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ll skip down the tin cornices</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of Main Street</span>
				<br/>
				<span>flicking the dull roof-line</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with our toe-tips!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hop clear of the bank! A</span>
				<br/>
				<span>pin-wheel round the white flag-pole.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I’ll sing you the while</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a thing to split your sides</span>
				<br/>
				<span>about Johann Sebastian Bach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the father of music, who had</span>
				<br/>
				<span>three wives and twenty-two children.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="january-morning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">January Morning</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Suite</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="january-morning-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I have discovered that most of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the beauties of travel are due to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the strange hours we keep to see them:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>the domes of the Church of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the Paulist Fathers in Weehawken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against a smoky dawn⁠—the heart stirred⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are beautiful as Saint Peters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>approached after years of anticipation.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Though the operation was postponed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw the tall probationers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in their tan uniforms</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">hurrying to breakfast!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>—and from basement entrys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>neatly coiffed, middle aged gentlemen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with orderly moustaches and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>well brushed coats</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>—and the sun, dipping into the avenues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>streaking the tops of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the irregular red houselets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i11">and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the gay shadows dropping and dropping.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>—and a young horse with a green bed-quilt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on his withers shaking his head:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bared teeth and nozzle high in the air!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>—and a semicircle of dirt colored men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>about a fire bursting from an old</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ash can,</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">—and the worn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>blue car rails (like the sky!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>gleaming among the cobbles!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-8" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>—and the rickety ferry-boat “Arden”!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What an object to be called “Arden”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>among the great piers,⁠—on the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ever new river!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">“Put me a Touchstone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the wheel, white gulls, and we’ll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>follow the ghost of the Half Moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the North West Passage⁠—and through!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(at Albany!) for all that!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-9" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Exquisite brown waves⁠—long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>circlets of silver moving over you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>enough with crumbling ice-crusts among you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sky has come down to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lighter than tiny bubbles, face to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>face with you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">His spirit is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a white gull with delicate pink feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and a snowy breast for you to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hold to your lips delicately!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-10" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The young doctor is dancing with happiness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the sparkling wind, alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the prow of the ferry! He notices</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the curdy barnacles and broken ice crusts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>left at the slip’s base by the low tide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and thinks of summer and green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shell crusted ledges among</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">the emerald eel-grass!</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-11" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Who knows the Palisades as I do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>knows the river breaks east from them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>above the city⁠—but they continue south</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—under the sky⁠—to bear a crest of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>little peering houses that brighten</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with dawn behind the moody</span>
					<br/>
					<span>water-loving giants of Manhattan.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-12" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Long yellow rushes bending</span>
					<br/>
					<span>above the white snow patches;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>purple and gold ribbon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the distant wood:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">what an angle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you make with each other as</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you lie there in contemplation.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-13" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Work hard all your young days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and they’ll find you too, some morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>staring up under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>your chiffonier at its warped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bass-wood bottom and your soul⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>out!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—among the little sparrows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>behind the shutter.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-14" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>—and the flapping flags are at</span>
					<br/>
					<span>half mast for the dead admiral.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="january-morning-15" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>All this⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">was for you, old woman.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wanted to write a poem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that you would understand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what good is it to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if you can’t understand it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">But you got to try hard⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Well, you know how</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the young girls run giggling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on Park Avenue after dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>when they ought to be home in bed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that’s the way it is with me somehow.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-solitary-disciple" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Solitary Disciple</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Rather notice, mon cher,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that the moon is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>tilted above</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the point of the steeple</span>
				<br/>
				<span>than that its color</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is shell-pink.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rather observe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that it is early morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>than that the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is smooth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as a turquoise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rather grasp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>how the dark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>converging lines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the steeple</span>
				<br/>
				<span>meet at the pinnacle⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>perceive how</span>
				<br/>
				<span>its little ornament</span>
				<br/>
				<span>tries to stop them⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>See how it fails!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See how the converging lines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the hexagonal spire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>escape upward⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>receding, dividing!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—sepals</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that guard and contain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the flower!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Observe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>how motionless</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the eaten moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lies in the protecting lines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is true:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the light colors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>brown-stone and slate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>shine orange and dark blue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But observe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the oppressive weight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the squat edifice!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Observe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the jasmine lightness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the moon.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dedication-for-a-plot-of-ground" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dedication for a Plot of Ground</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This plot of ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>facing the waters of this inlet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is dedicated to the living presence of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Emily Richardson Wellcome</span>
				<br/>
				<span>who was born in England; married;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lost her husband and with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>her five year old son</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sailed for New York in a two-master;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>was driven to the Azores;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>ran adrift on Fire Island shoal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>met her second husband</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in a Brooklyn boarding house,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>went with him to Puerto Rico</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bore three more children, lost</span>
				<br/>
				<span>her second husband, lived hard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for eight years in <abbr>St.</abbr> Thomas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Puerto Rico, San Domingo, followed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the oldest son to New York,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lost her daughter, lost her “baby,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>seized the two boys of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the oldest son by the second marriage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>mothered them⁠—they being</span>
				<br/>
				<span>motherless⁠—fought for them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the other grandmother</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the aunts, brought them here</span>
				<br/>
				<span>summer after summer, defended</span>
				<br/>
				<span>herself here against thieves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>storms, sun, fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against flies, against girls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that came smelling about, against</span>
				<br/>
				<span>drought, against weeds, storm-tides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>neighbors, weasels that stole her chickens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the weakness of her own hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the growing strength of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the boys, against wind, against</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the stones, against trespassers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against rents, against her own mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She grubbed this earth with her own hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>domineered over this grass plot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>blackguarded her oldest son</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into buying it, lived here fifteen years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>attained a final loneliness and⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If you can bring nothing to this place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but your carcass, keep out.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="k-mcb" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">K. McB.</abbr>
			</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You exquisite chunk of mud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kathleen⁠—just like</span>
				<br/>
				<span>any other chunk of mud!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—especially in April!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Curl up round their shoes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>when they try to step on you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>spoil the polish!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall laugh till I am sick</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at their amazement.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do they expect the ground to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>always solid?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give them the slip then;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>let them sit in you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>soil their pants;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>teach them a dignity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that is dignity, the dignity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of mud!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i5">Lie basking in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the sun then⁠—fast asleep!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even become dust on occasion.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="love-song3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I lie here thinking of you:⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>the stain of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is upon the world!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yellow, yellow, yellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it eats into the leaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>smears with saffron</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the horned branches that lean</span>
				<br/>
				<span>heavily</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against a smooth purple sky!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is no light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>only a honey-thick stain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that drips from leaf to leaf</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and limb to limb</span>
				<br/>
				<span>spoiling the colors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the whole world⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>you far off there under</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the wine-red selvage of the west!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-wanderer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Wanderer</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="subtitle">A Rococo Study</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<section id="the-wanderer-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Advent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Even in the time when as yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had no certain knowledge of her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She sprang from the nest, a young crow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose first flight circled the forest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know now how then she showed me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her mind, reaching out to the horizon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She close above the tree tops.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw her eyes straining at the new distance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as the woods fell from her flying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Likewise they fell from me as I followed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that I strongly guessed all that I must put from me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To come through ready for the high courses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But one day, crossing the ferry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the great towers of Manhattan before me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out at the prow with the sea wind blowing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had been wearying many questions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which she had put on to try me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How shall I be a mirror to this modernity?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When lo! in a rush, dragging</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A blunt boat on the yielding river⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suddenly I saw her! And she waved me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the white wet in midst of her playing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She cried me, “Haia! Here I am, son!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See how strong my little finger is!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can I not swim well?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can fly too!” And with that a great sea-gull</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went to the left, vanishing with a wild cry⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in my mind all the persons of godhead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Followed after.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-wanderer-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Clarity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Come!” cried my mind and by her might</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was upon us we flew above the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeking her, grey gulls among the white⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the air speaking as she had willed it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I am given,” cried I, “now I know it!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know now all my time is forespent!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For me one face is all the world!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I have seen her at last, this day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In whom age in age is united⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indifferent, out of sequence, marvelously!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saving alone that one sequence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which is the beauty of all the world, for surely</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Either there in the rolling smoke spheres below us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or here with us in the air intercircling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Certainly somewhere here about us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know she is revealing these things!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And as gulls we flew and with soft cries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We seemed to speak, flying, “It is she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mighty, recreating the whole world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This the first day of wonders!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She is attiring herself before me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Taking shape before me for worship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A red leaf that falls upon a stone!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is she of whom I told you, old</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgiveless, unreconcilable;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That high wanderer of by-ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walking imperious in beggary!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At her throat is loose gold, a single chain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From among many, on her bent fingers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are rings from which the stones are fallen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her wrists wear a diminished state, her ankles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are bare! Toward the river! Is it she there?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we swerved clamorously downward⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I will take my peace in her henceforth!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-wanderer-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Broadway</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was then she struck⁠—from behind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mid air, as with the edge of a great wing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And instantly down the mists of my eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There came crowds walking⁠—men as visions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With expressionless, animate faces;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Empty men with shell-thin bodies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jostling close above the gutter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hasting⁠—nowhere! And then for the first time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I really saw her, really scented the sweat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of her presence and⁠—fell back sickened!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ominous, old, painted⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bright lips, and lewd Jew’s eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her might strapped in by a corset</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give her age youth, perfect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In her will to be young she had covered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The godhead to go beside me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent, her voice entered at my eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my astonished thought followed her easily:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Well, do their eyes shine, do their clothes fit?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These <em>live</em> I tell you! Old men with red cheeks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young men in gay suits! See them!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dogged, quivering, impassive⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well⁠—are these the ones you envied?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At which I answered her, “Marvelous old queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grant me power to catch something of this day’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Air and sun into your service!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That these toilers after peace and after pleasure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May turn to you, worshippers at all hours!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she sniffed upon the words warily⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet I persisted, watching for an answer:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To you, horrible old woman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who know all fires out of the bodies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all men that walk with lust at heart!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To you, O mighty, crafty prowler</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the youth of all cities, drunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the sight of thy archness! All the youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That come to you, you having the knowledge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rather than to those uninitiate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To you, marvelous old queen, give me always</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A new marriage⁠—”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">But she laughed loudly⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A new grip upon those garments that brushed me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In days gone by on beach, lawn, and in forest!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May I be lifted still, up and out of terror,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up from before the death living around me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom up continually and carried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whatever way the head of your whim is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A burr upon those streaming tatters⁠—”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the night had fallen, she stilled me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And led me away.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-wanderer-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Paterson⁠—The Strike</h3>
				<p>
					<span>At the first peep of dawn she roused me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I rose trembling at the change which the night saw!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For there, wretchedly brooding in a corner</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From which her old eyes glittered fiercely⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Go!” she said, and I hurried shivering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out into the deserted streets of Paterson.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That night she came again, hovering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In rags within the filmy ceiling⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Great Queen, bless me with thy tatters!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You are blest, go on!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">“Hot for savagery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sucking the air! I went into the city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out again, baffled onto the mountain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back into the city!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Nowhere</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The subtle! Everywhere the electric!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“A short bread-line before a hitherto empty tea shop:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No questions⁠—all stood patiently,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dominated by one idea: something</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That carried them as they are always wanting to be carried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘But what is it,’ I asked those nearest me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘This thing heretofore unobtainable</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they seem so clever to have put on now!’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Why since I have failed them can it be anything but their own brood?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can it be anything but brutality?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On that at least they’re united! That at least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is their bean soup, their calm bread and a few luxuries!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But in me, more sensitive, marvelous old queen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It sank deep into the blood, that I rose upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tense air enjoying the dusty fight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heavy drink were the low, sloping foreheads</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flat skulls with the unkempt black or blond hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ugly legs of the young girls, pistons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too powerful for delicacy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The women’s wrists, the men’s arms, red</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Used to heat and cold, to toss quartered beeves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And barrels, and milk-cans, and crates of fruit!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Faces all knotted up like burls on oaks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grasping, fox-snouted, thick-lipped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sagging breasts and protruding stomachs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rasping voices, filthy habits with the hands.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Nowhere you! Everywhere the electric!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ugly, venemous, gigantic!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tossing me as a great father his helpless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Infant till it shriek with ecstasy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And its eyes roll and its tongue hangs out!⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I am at peace again, old queen, I listen clearer now.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-wanderer-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Abroad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Never, even in a dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have I winged so high nor so well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As with her, she leading me by the hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That first day on the Jersey mountains!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And never shall I forget</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trembling interest with which I heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her voice in a low thunder:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You are safe here. Look child, look open-mouth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The patch of road between the steep bramble banks;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tree in the wind, the white house there, the sky!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speak to men of these, concerning me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For never while you permit them to ignore me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In these shall the full of my freed voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come grappling the ear with intent!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never while the air’s clear coolness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is seized to be a coat for pettiness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never while richness of greenery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stands a shield for prurient minds;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never, permitting these things unchallenged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall my voice of leaves and varicolored bark come free through!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At which, knowing her solitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shouted over the country below me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Waken! my people, to the boughs green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With ripening fruit within you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waken to the myriad cinquefoil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the waving grass of your minds!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Waken to the silent phoebe nest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the eaves of your spirit!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But she, stooping nearer the shifting hills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spoke again. “Look there! See them!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There in the oat field with the horses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See them there! bowed by their passions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crushed down, that had been raised as a roof beam!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weight of the sky is upon them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under which all roof beams crumble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is none but the single roof beam:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no love bears against the great firefly!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At this I looked up at the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then shouted again with all the might I had.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my voice was a seed in the wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then she, the old one, laughing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seized me and whirling about bore back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the city, upward, still laughing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the great towers stood above the marshland</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wheeling beneath: the little creeks, the mallows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I picked as a boy, the Hackensack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So quiet that seemed so broad formerly:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crawling trains, the cedar swamp on the one side⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All so old, so familiar⁠—so new now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To my marvelling eyes as we passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invisible.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-wanderer-6" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Soothsay</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Eight days went by, eight days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comforted by no nights, until finally:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Would you behold yourself old, beloved?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was pierced, yet I consented gladly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I knew it could not be otherwise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And she⁠—“Behold yourself old!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sustained in strength, wielding might in gript surges!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not bodying the sun in weak leaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But holding way over rockish men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fern free fingers on their little crags,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their hollows, the new Atlas, to bear them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For pride and for mockery! Behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yourself old! winding with slow might⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A vine among oaks⁠—to the thin tops:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving the leafless leaved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bearing purple clusters! Behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yourself old! birds are behind you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are the wind coming that stills birds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shakes the leaves in booming polyphony⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slow, winning high way amid the knocking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of boughs, evenly crescendo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The din and bellow of the male wind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leap then from forest into foam!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lash about from low into high flames</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tipping sound, the female chorus⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Linking all lions, all twitterings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make them nothing! Behold yourself old!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I made to answer she continued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little wistfully yet in a voice clear cut:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Good is my overlip and evil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My underlip to you henceforth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I have taken your soul between my two hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this shall be as it is spoken.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="the-wanderer-7" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr>St.</abbr> James’ Grove</h3>
				<p>
					<span>And so it came to that last day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, she leading by the hand, we went out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Early in the morning, I heavy of heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I knew the novitiate was ended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ecstasy was over, the life begun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In my woolen shirt and the pale blue necktie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My grandmother gave me, there I went</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the old queen right past the houses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of my friends down the hill to the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As on any usual day, any errand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone, walking under trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I went with her, she with me in her wild hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Santiago Grove and presently</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She bent forward and knelt by the river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Passaic, that filthy river.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there dabbling her mad hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She called me close beside her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raising the water then in the cupped palm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She bathed our brows wailing and laughing:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“River, we are old, you and I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are old and by bad luck, beggars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, the filth in our hair, our bodies stink!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old friend, here I have brought you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The young soul you long asked of me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand forth, river, and give me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old friend of my revels!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give me the well-worn spirit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For here I have made a room for it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I will return to you forthwith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The youth you have long asked of me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand forth, river, and give me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old friend of my revels!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the filthy Passaic consented!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then she, leaping up with a fierce cry:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Enter, youth, into this bulk!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enter, river, into this young man!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the river began to enter my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eddying back cool and limpid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the crystal beginning of its days.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with the rebound it leaped forward:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muddy, then black and shrunken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I felt the utter depth of its rottenness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vile breadth of its degradation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dropped down knowing this was me now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she lifted me and the water took a new tide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again into the older experiences,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so, backward and forward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It tortured itself within me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until time had been washed finally under,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the river had found its level</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And its last motion had ceased</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I knew all⁠—it became me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I knew this for double certain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For there, whitely, I saw myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Being borne off under the water!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could have shouted out in my agony</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the sight of myself departing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever⁠—but I bit back my despair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For she had averted her eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which I knew well what she was thinking⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so the last of me was taken.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then she, “Be mostly silent!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turning to the river, spoke again:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“For him and for me, river, the wandering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But by you I leave for happiness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep foliage, the thickest beeches⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though elsewhere they are all dying⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tallest oaks and yellow birches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That dip their leaves in you, mourning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As now I dip my hair, immemorial</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of me, immemorial of him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Immemorial of these our promises!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here shall be a bird’s paradise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sing to you remembering my voice:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here the most secluded spaces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For miles around, hallowed by a stench</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be our joint solitude and temple;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In memory of this clear marriage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the child I have brought you in the late years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Live, river, live in luxuriance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remembering this our son,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In remembrance of me and my sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of the new wandering!”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-late-singer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Late Singer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Here it is spring again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and I still a young man!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am late at my singing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sparrow with the black rain on his breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>has been at his cadenzas for two weeks past:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What is it that is dragging at my heart?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grass by the back door</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is stiff with sap.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The old maples are opening</span>
				<br/>
				<span>their branches of brown and yellow moth-flowers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A moon hangs in the blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the early afternoons over the marshes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am late at my singing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="march" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">March</h2>
			<section id="march-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Winter is long in this climate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and spring⁠—a matter of a few days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>only⁠—a flower or two picked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from mud or from among wet leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or at best against treacherous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bitterness of wind, and sky shining</span>
					<br/>
					<span>teasingly, then closing in black</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and sudden, with fierce jaws.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="march-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>March,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">you remind me of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the pyramids, our pyramids⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stript of the polished stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that used to guard them!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">March,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you are like Fra Angelico</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at Fiesole, painting on plaster!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>March,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">you are like a band of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>young poets that have not learned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the blessedness of warmth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(or have forgotten it).</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At any rate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am moved to write poetry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for the warmth there is in it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and for the loneliness⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a poem that shall have you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">in it March.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="march-3" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>See!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Ashur-ban-i-pal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the archer king, on horse-back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in blue and yellow enamel!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with drawn bow⁠—facing lions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>standing on their hind legs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fangs bared! his shafts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bristling in their necks!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sacred bulls⁠—dragons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in embossed brickwork</span>
					<br/>
					<span>marching⁠—in four tiers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>along the sacred way to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nebuchadnezzar’s throne hall!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They shine in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they that have been marching⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>marching under the dust of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ten thousand dirt years.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they are coming into bloom again!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See them!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>marching still, bared by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the storms from my calendar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—winds that blow back the sand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>winds that enfilade dirt!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>winds that by strange craft</span>
					<br/>
					<span>have whipt up a black army</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that by pick and shovel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bare a procession to</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">the god, Marduk!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Natives cursing and digging</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for pay unearth dragons with</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upright tails and sacred bulls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>alternately⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">in four tiers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lining the way to an old altar!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Natives digging at old walls⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>digging me warmth⁠—digging me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">sweet loneliness⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>high enamelled walls.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="march-4" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My second spring⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>passed in a monastery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with plaster walls⁠—in Fiesole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on the hill above Florence.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My second spring⁠—painted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a virgin⁠—in a blue aureole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sitting on a three-legged stool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>arms crossed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>she is intently serious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">and still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>watching an angel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with colored wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>half kneeling before her⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and smiling⁠—the angel’s eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>holding the eyes of Mary</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as a snake’s holds a bird’s.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the ground there are flowers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>trees are in leaf.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="march-5" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>But! now for the battle!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now for murder⁠—now for the real thing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My third springtime is approaching!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Winds!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lean, serious as a virgin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>seeking, seeking the flowers of March.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>flowers nowhere to be found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they twine among the bare branches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in insatiable eagerness⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they whirl up the snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>seeking under it⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they⁠—the winds⁠—snakelike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>roar among yellow reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>seeking flowers⁠—flowers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I spring among them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>seeking one flower</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in which to warm myself!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I deride with all the ridicule</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of misery⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my own starved misery.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Counter-cutting winds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">strike against me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>refreshing their fury!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come, good, cold fellows!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Have we no flowers?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defy then with even more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>desperation than ever⁠—being</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">lean and frozen!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But though you are lean and frozen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>think of the blue bulls of Babylon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Fling yourselves upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">their empty roses⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">cut savagely!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>think of the painted monastery</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">at Fiesole.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="berket-and-the-stars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Berket and the Stars</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A day on the boulevards chosen out of ten years of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>student poverty! One best day out of ten good ones.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Berket in high spirits⁠—“Ha, oranges! Let’s have one!”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he made to snatch an orange from the vender’s cart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now so clever was the deception, so nicely timed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the full sweep of certain wave summits,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that the rumor of the thing has come down through</span>
				<br/>
				<span>three generations⁠—which is relatively forever!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-celebration" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Celebration</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A middle-northern March, now as always⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>gusts from the south broken against cold winds⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but from under, as if a slow hand lifted a tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it moves⁠—not into April⁠—into a second March,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the old skin of wind-clear scales dropping</span>
				<br/>
				<span>upon the mould: this is the shadow projects the tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>upward causing the sun to shine in his sphere.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So we will put on our pink felt hat⁠—new last year!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—newer this by virtue of brown eyes turning back</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the seasons⁠—and let us walk to the orchid-house,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>see the flowers will take the prize to-morrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at the Palace.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Stop here, these are our oleanders.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they are in bloom⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">You would waste words</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is clearer to me than if the pink</span>
				<br/>
				<span>were on the branch. It would be a searching in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a colored cloud to reveal that which now, huskless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>shows the very reason for their being.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And these the orange-trees, in blossom⁠—no need</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to tell with this weight of perfume in the air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If it were not so dark in this shed one could better</span>
				<br/>
				<span>see the white.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">It is that very perfume</span>
				<br/>
				<span>has drawn the darkness down among the leaves.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do I speak clearly enough?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is this darkness reveals that which darkness alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>loosens and sets spinning on waxen wings⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>not the touch of a finger-tip, not the motion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of a sigh. A too heavy sweetness proves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>its own caretaker.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And here are the orchids!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i10">Never having seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>such gaiety I will read these flowers for you:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is an odd January, died⁠—in Villon’s time.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snow, this is and this the stain of a violet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>grew in that place the spring that foresaw its own doom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And this, a certain July from Iceland:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a young woman of that place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>breathed it toward the south. It took root there.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The color ran true but the plant is small.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This falling spray of snowflakes is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a handful of dead Februarys</span>
				<br/>
				<span>prayed into flower by Rafael Arevalo Martinez</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of Guatemala.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Here’s that old friend who</span>
				<br/>
				<span>went by my side so many years: this full, fragile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>head of veined lavender. Oh that April</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that we first went with our stiff lusts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>leaving the city behind, out to the green hill⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May, they said she was. A hand for all of us:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>this branch of blue butterflies tied to this stem.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>June is a yellow cup I’ll not name; August</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the over-heavy one. And here are⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>russet and shiny, all but March. And March?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, March⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Flowers are a tiresome pastime.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One has a wish to shake them from their pots</span>
				<br/>
				<span>root and stem, for the sun to gnaw.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Walk out again into the cold and saunter home</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the fire. This day has blossomed long enough.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have wiped out the red night and lit a blaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>instead which will at least warm our hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and stir up the talk.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">I think we have kept fair time.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Time is a green orchid.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="april" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">April</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If you had come away with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into another state</span>
				<br/>
				<span>we had been quiet together.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But there the sun coming up</span>
				<br/>
				<span>out of the nothing beyond the lake was</span>
				<br/>
				<span>too low in the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>there was too great a pushing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>too much of sumac buds, pink</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with the clear gum upon them,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>too many opening hearts of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lilac leaves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>too many, too many swollen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>limp poplar tassels on the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bare branches!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was too strong in the air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I had no rest against that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>springtime!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pounding of the hoofs on the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>raw sods</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stayed with me half through the night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I awoke smiling but tired.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-goodnight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Goodnight</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Go to sleep⁠—though of course you will not⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to tideless waves thundering slantwise against</span>
				<br/>
				<span>strong embankments, rattle and swish of spray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dashed thirty feet high, caught by the lake wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>scattered and strewn broadcast in over the steady</span>
				<br/>
				<span>car rails! Sleep, sleep! Gulls’ cries in a wind-gust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>broken by the wind; calculating wings set above</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the field of waves breaking.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go to sleep to the lunge between foam-crests,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>refuse churned in the recoil. Food! Food!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Offal! Offal! that holds them in the air, wave-white</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for the one purpose, feather upon feather, the wild</span>
				<br/>
				<span>chill in their eyes, the hoarseness in their voices⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sleep, sleep⁠ ⁠…</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gentlefooted crowds are treading out your lullaby.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their arms nudge, they brush shoulders,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hitch this way then that, mass and surge at the crossings⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lullaby, lullaby! The wild-fowl police whistles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the enraged roar of the traffic, machine shrieks:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it is all to put you to sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to soften your limbs in relaxed postures,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and that your head slip sidewise, and your hair loosen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and fall over your eyes and over your mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>brushing your lips wistfully that you may dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sleep and dream⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A black fungus springs out about lonely church doors⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sleep, sleep. The Night, coming down upon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the wet boulevard, would start you awake with his</span>
				<br/>
				<span>message, to have in at your window. Pay no</span>
				<br/>
				<span>heed to him. He storms at your sill with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>cooings, with gesticulations, curses!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You will not let him in. He would keep you from sleeping.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He would have you sit under your desk lamp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>brooding, pondering; he would have you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>slide out the drawer, take up the ornamented dagger</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and handle it. It is late, it is nineteen-nineteen⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>go to sleep, his cries are a lullaby;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his jabbering is a sleep-well-my-baby; he is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a crackbrained messenger.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The maid waking you in the morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>when you are up and dressing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the rustle of your clothes as you raise them⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it is the same tune.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At table the cold, greenish, split grapefruit, its juice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on the tongue, the clink of the spoon in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>your coffee, the toast odors say it over and over.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The open street-door lets in the breath of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the morning wind from over the lake.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bus coming to a halt grinds from its sullen brakes⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lullaby, lullaby. The crackle of a newspaper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the movement of the troubled coat beside you⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sleep, sleep, sleep, sleep⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is the sting of snow, the burning liquor of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the moonlight, the rush of rain in the gutters packed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with dead leaves: go to sleep, go to sleep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the night passes⁠—and never passes⁠—</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="overture-to-a-dance-of-locomotives" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Overture to a Dance of Locomotives</h2>
			<section id="overture-to-a-dance-of-locomotives-1" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Men with picked voices chant the names</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of cities in a huge gallery: promises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that pull through descending stairways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to a deep rumbling.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">The rubbing feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of those coming to be carried quicken a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>grey pavement into soft light that rocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to and fro, under the domed ceiling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>across and across from pale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>earthcolored walls of bare limestone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Covertly the hands of a great clock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>go round and round! Were they to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>move quickly and at once the whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>secret would be out and the shuffling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of all ants be done forever.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A leaning pyramid of sunlight, narrowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>out at a high window, moves by the clock:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>disaccordant hands straining out from</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a center: inevitable postures infinitely</span>
					<br/>
					<span>repeated⁠—</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="overture-to-a-dance-of-locomotives-2" epub:type="chapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Two⁠—twofour⁠—twoeight!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Porters in red hats run on narrow platforms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This way ma’m!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">—important not to take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the wrong train!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Lights from the concrete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ceiling hang crooked but⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i11">Poised horizontal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on glittering parallels the dingy cylinders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>packed with a warm glow⁠—inviting entry⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>pull against the hour. But brakes can</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hold a fixed posture till⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">The whistle!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not twoeight. Not twofour. Two!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gliding windows. Colored cooks sweating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in a small kitchen. Taillights⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In time: twofour!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In time: twoeight!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>—rivers are tunneled: trestles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cross oozy swampland: wheels repeating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the same gesture remain relatively</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stationary: rails forever parallel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>return on themselves infinitely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i11">The dance is sure.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="romance-moderne" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Romance Moderne</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Tracks of rain and light linger in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the spongy greens of a nature whose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>flickering mountain⁠—bulging nearer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>ebbing back into the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hollowing itself away to hold a lake⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or brown stream rising and falling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at the roadside, turning about,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>churning itself white, drawing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>green in over it⁠—plunging glassy funnels</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fall⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And⁠—the other world⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the windshield a blunt barrier:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Talk to me. Sh! they would hear us.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—the backs of their heads facing us⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stream continues its motion of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a hound running over rough ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Trees vanish⁠—reappear⁠—vanish:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>detached dance of gnomes⁠—as a talk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dodging remarks, glows and fades.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—The unseen power of words⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now that a few of the moves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are clear the first desire is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to fling oneself out at the side into</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the other dance, to other music.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peer Gynt. Rip Van Winkle. Diana.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If I were young I would try a new alignment⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>alight nimbly from the car, Good-bye!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Childhood companions linked two and two</span>
				<br/>
				<span>criss-cross: four, three, two, one.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Back into self, tentacles withdrawn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feel about in warm self-flesh.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since childhood, since childhood!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Childhood is a toad in the garden, a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>happy toad. All toads are happy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and belong in gardens. A toad to Diana!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lean forward. Punch the steersman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>behind the ear. Twirl the wheel!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the edge! Screams! Crash!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The end. I sit above my head⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a little removed⁠—or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a thin wash of rain on the roadway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—I am never afraid when he is driving⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>interposes new direction,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rides us sidewise, unforseen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into the ditch! All threads cut!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Death! Black. The end. The very end⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I would sit separate weighing a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>small red handful: the dirt of these parts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sliding mists sheeting the alders</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the touch of fingers creeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to mine. All stuff of the blind emotions.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But⁠—stirred, the eye seizes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for the first time⁠—The eye awake!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>anything, a dirt bank with green stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of scrawny weed flattened upon it under</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a weight of air⁠—For the first time!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or a yawning depth: Big!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swim around in it, through it⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>all directions and find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>vitreous seawater stuff⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God how I love you!⁠—or, as I say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a plunge into the ditch. The end. I sit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>examining my red handful. Balancing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—this⁠—in and out⁠—agh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love you? It’s</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a fire in the blood, willy-nilly!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the sun coming up in the morning.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ha, but it’s the grey moon too, already up</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the morning. You are slow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men are not friends where it concerns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a woman? Fighters. Playfellows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>White round thighs! Youth! Sighs⁠—!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the fillip of novelty. It’s⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mountains. Elephants humping along</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against the sky⁠—indifferent to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>light withdrawing its tattered shreds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>worn out with embraces. It’s</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the fillip of novelty. It’s a fire in the blood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh get a flannel shirt, white flannel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or pongee. You’d look so well!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I married you because I liked your nose.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wanted you! I wanted you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in spite of all they’d say⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rain and light, mountain and rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rain and river. Will you love me always?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—A car overturned and two crushed bodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>under it.⁠—Always! Always!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the white moon already up.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>White. Clean. All the colors.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A good head, backed by the eye⁠—awake!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>backed by the emotions⁠—blind⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>River and mountain, light and rain⁠—or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rain, rock, light, trees⁠—divided:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rain-light counter rocks-trees or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>trees counter rain-light-rocks or⁠—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Myriads of counter processions</span>
				<br/>
				<span>crossing and recrossing, regaining</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the advantage, buying here, selling there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—You are sold cheap everywhere in town!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lingering, touching fingers, withdrawing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>gathering forces into blares, hummocks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>peaks and rivers⁠—river meeting rock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—I wish that you were lying there dead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and I sitting here beside you.⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the grey moon⁠—over and over.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s the clay of these parts.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-desolate-field" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Desolate Field</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Vast and grey, the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is a simulacrum</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to all but him whose days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are vast and grey, and⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the tall, dried grasses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a goat stirs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with nozzle searching the ground.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—my head is in the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but who am I⁠ ⁠… ?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And amazed my heart leaps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at the thought of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>vast and grey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>yearning silently over me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="willow-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Willow Poem</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is a willow when summer is over,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a willow by the river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from which no leaf has fallen nor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bitten by the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>turned orange or crimson.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The leaves cling and grow paler,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>swing and grow paler</span>
				<br/>
				<span>over the swirling waters of the river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as if loath to let go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>they are so cool, so drunk with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the swirl of the wind and of the river⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>oblivious to winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the last to let go and fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into the water and on the ground.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="approach-of-winter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Approach of Winter</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The half stripped trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>struck by a wind together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bending all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the leaves flutter drily</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and refuse to let go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or driven like hail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stream bitterly out to one side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where the salvias, hard carmine,⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like no leaf that ever was⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>edge the bare garden.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="january" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">January</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Again I reply to the triple winds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>running chromatic fifths of derision</span>
				<br/>
				<span>outside my window:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">Play louder.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You will not succeed. I am</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bound more to my sentences</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the more you batter at me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to follow you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">And the wind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as before, fingers perfectly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>its derisive music.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="blizzard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Blizzard</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Snow:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>years of anger following</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hours that float idly down⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the blizzard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>drifts its weight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>deeper and deeper for three days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or sixty years, eh? Then</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the sun! a clutter of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>yellow and blue flakes⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hairy looking trees stand out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in long alleys</span>
				<br/>
				<span>over a wild solitude.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The man turns and there⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his solitary track stretched out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>upon the world.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-waken-an-old-lady" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Waken an Old Lady</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Old age is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a flight of small</span>
				<br/>
				<span>cheeping birds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>skimming</span>
				<br/>
				<span>bare trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>above a snow glaze.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gaining and failing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>they are buffetted</span>
				<br/>
				<span>by a dark wind⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But what?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On harsh weedstalks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the flock has rested,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the snow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is covered with broken</span>
				<br/>
				<span>seedhusks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the wind tempered</span>
				<br/>
				<span>by a shrill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>piping of plenty.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="winter-trees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Winter Trees</h2>
			<p>
				<span>All the complicated details</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the attiring and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the disattiring are completed!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A liquid moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>moves gently among</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the long branches.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus having prepared their buds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>against a sure winter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the wise trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stand sleeping in the cold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="complaint" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Complaint</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They call me and I go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is a frozen road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>past midnight, a dust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of snow caught</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the rigid wheeltracks.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The door opens.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I smile, enter and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>shake off the cold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here is a great woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on her side in the bed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She is sick,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>perhaps vomiting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>perhaps laboring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to give birth to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a tenth child. Joy! Joy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night is a room</span>
				<br/>
				<span>darkened for lovers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>through the jalousies the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>has sent one gold needle!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I pick the hair from her eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and watch her misery</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with compassion.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-cold-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Cold Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is cold. The white moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is up among her scattered stars⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like the bare thighs of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the Police Sergeant’s wife⁠—among</span>
				<br/>
				<span>her five children⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No answer. Pale shadows lie upon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the frosted grass. One answer:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is midnight, it is still</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and it is cold⁠ ⁠… !</span>
				<br/>
				<span>White thighs of the sky! a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>new answer out of the depths of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my male belly: In April⁠ ⁠…</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In April I shall see again⁠—In April!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the round and perfect thighs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the Police Sergeant’s wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>perfect still after many babies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oya!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="spring-storm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Spring Storm</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The sky has given over</span>
				<br/>
				<span>its bitterness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of the dark change</span>
				<br/>
				<span>all day long</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rain falls and falls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as if it would never end.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still the snow keeps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>its hold on the ground.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But water, water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from a thousand runnels!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It collects swiftly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dappled with black</span>
				<br/>
				<span>cuts a way for itself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>through green ice in the gutters.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drop after drop it falls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from the withered grass-stems</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the overhanging embankment.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-delicacies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Delicacies</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The hostess, in pink satin and blond hair⁠—dressed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>high⁠—shone beautifully in her white slippers against</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the great silent bald head of her little-eyed husband!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Raising a glass of yellow Rhine wine in the narrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>space just beyond the light-varnished woodwork and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the decorative column between dining-room and hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>she smiled the smile of water tumbling from one ledge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to another.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We began with a herring salad: delicately flavoured</span>
				<br/>
				<span>saltiness in scallops of lettuce-leaves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The little owl-eyed and thick-set lady with masses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of grey hair has smooth pink cheeks without a wrinkle.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She cannot be the daughter of the little red-faced</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fellow dancing about inviting lion-headed Wolff the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>druggist to play the piano! But she is. Wolff is a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>terrific smoker: if the telephone goes off at night⁠—so</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his curled-haired wife whispers⁠—he rises from bed but</span>
				<br/>
				<span>cannot answer till he has lighted a cigarette.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Sherry wine in little conical glasses, dull brownish</span>
				<br/>
				<span>yellow, and tomatoes stuffed with finely cut chicken</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and mayonnaise!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The tall Irishman in a Prince Albert and the usual</span>
				<br/>
				<span>striped trousers is going to sing for us. (The piano</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is in a little alcove with dark curtains.) The hostess’s</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sister⁠—ten years younger than she⁠—in black net and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>velvet, has hair like some filmy haystack, cloudy about</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the eyes. She will play for her husband.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">My wife is young, yes she is young and pretty when</span>
				<br/>
				<span>she cares to be⁠—when she is interested in a discussion:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it is the little dancing mayor’s wife telling her of the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Day nursery in East Rutherford, ’cross the track,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>divided from us by the railroad⁠—and disputes as to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>precedence. It is in this town the saloon flourishes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the saloon of my friend on the right whose wife has</span>
				<br/>
				<span>twice offended with chance words. Her English is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>atrocious! It is in this town that the saloon is situated,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>close to the railroad track, close as may be, this side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>being dry, dry, dry: two people listening on opposite</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sides of a wall!⁠—The Day Nursery had sixty-five</span>
				<br/>
				<span>babies the week before last, so my wife’s eyes shine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and her cheeks are pink and I cannot see a blemish.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Ice-cream in the shape of flowers and domestic</span>
				<br/>
				<span>objects: a pipe for me since I do not smoke, a doll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The figure of some great bulk of a woman disappearing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into the kitchen with a quick look over the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>shoulder. My friend on the left who has spent the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>whole day in a car the like of which some old fellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>would give to an actress: flower-holders, mirrors,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>curtains, plush seats⁠—my friend on the left who is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>chairman of the Streets committee of the town council</span>
				<br/>
				<span>—and who has spent the whole day studying automobile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fire-engines in neighbouring towns in view of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>purchase⁠—my friend, at the Elks last week at the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>breaking-up hymn, signalled for them to let Bill⁠—a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>familiar friend of the saloon-keeper⁠—sing out all alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the organ⁠—and he did sing!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Salz-rolls, exquisite! and Rhine wine <i xml:lang="la">ad libitum</i>.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A masterly caviare sandwich.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">The children flitting about above stairs. The</span>
				<br/>
				<span>councilman has just bought a National eight⁠—some</span>
				<br/>
				<span>car!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">For heaven’s sake I mustn’t forget the halves of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>green peppers stuffed with cream cheese and whole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>walnuts!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thursday" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thursday</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I have had my dream⁠—like others⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and it has come to nothing, so that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I remain now carelessly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with feet planted on the ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and look up at the sky⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>feeling my clothes about me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the weight of my body in my shoes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the rim of my hat, air passing in and out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at my nose⁠—and decide to dream no more.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dark-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dark Day</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A three-day-long rain from the east⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>an interminable talking, talking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of no consequence⁠—patter, patter, patter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hand in hand little winds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>blow the thin streams aslant.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Warm. Distance cut off. Seclusion.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A few passers-by, drawn in upon themselves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hurry from one place to another.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Winds of the white poppy! there is no escape!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An interminable talking, talking,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>talking⁠ ⁠… it has happened before.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Backward, backward, backward.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="time-the-hangman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Time the Hangman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Poor old Abner, old white-haired nigger!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I remember when you were so strong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you hung yourself by a rope round the neck</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in Doc Hollister’s barn to prove you could beat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the faker in the circus⁠—and it didn’t kill you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now your face is in your hands, and your elbows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are on your knees, and you are silent and broken.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-friend" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Friend</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Well, Lizzie Anderson! seventeen men⁠—and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the baby hard to find a father for!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What will the good Father in Heaven say</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to the local judge if he do not solve this problem?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A little two pointed smile and⁠—pouff!⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the law is changed into a mouthful of phrases.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-gentle-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Gentle Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I feel the caress of my own fingers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on my own neck as I place my collar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and think pityingly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the kind women I have known.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-soughing-wind" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Soughing Wind</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Some leaves hang late, some fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>before the first frost⁠—so goes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the tale of winter branches and old bones.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="spring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Spring</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O my grey hairs!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are truly white as plum blossoms.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="play" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Play</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Subtle, clever brain, wiser than I am,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>by what devious means do you contrive</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to remain idle? Teach me, O master.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Leaves are greygreen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the glass broken, bright green.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-poor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Poor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>By constantly tormenting them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with reminders of the lice in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>their children’s hair, the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>School Physician first</span>
				<br/>
				<span>brought their hatred down on him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But by this familiarity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>they grew used to him, and so,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at last,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>took him for their friend and adviser.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="complete-destruction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Complete Destruction</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It was an icy day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We buried the cat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>then took her box</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and set fire to it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the back yard.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those fleas that escaped</span>
				<br/>
				<span>earth and fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>died by the cold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="memory-of-april" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Memory of April</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You say love is this, love is that:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poplar tassels, willow tendrils</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the wind and the rain comb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>tinkle and drip, tinkle and drip⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>branches drifting apart. Hagh!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love has not even visited this country.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="epitaph" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Epitaph</h2>
			<p>
				<span>An old willow with hollow branches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>slowly swayed his few high bright tendrils</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and sang:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love is a young green willow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>shimmering at the bare wood’s edge.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="daisy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Daisy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The dayseye hugging the earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in August, ha! Spring is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>gone down in purple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>weeds stand high in the corn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the rainbeaten furrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is clotted with sorrel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and crabgrass, the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>branch is black under</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the heavy mass of the leaves⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sun is upon a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>slender green stem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>ribbed lengthwise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He lies on his back⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>it is a woman also⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>he regards his former</span>
				<br/>
				<span>majesty and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>round the yellow center,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>split and creviced and done into</span>
				<br/>
				<span>minute flowerheads, he sends out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his twenty rays⁠—a little</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the wind is among them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to grow cool there!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One turns the thing over</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in his hand and looks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at it from the rear: brownedged,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>green and pointed scales</span>
				<br/>
				<span>armor his yellow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But turn and turn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the crisp petals remain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>brief, translucent, greenfastened,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>barely touching at the edges:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>blades of limpid seashell.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="primrose" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Primrose</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is not a color.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is summer!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is the wind on a willow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the lap of waves, the shadow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>under a bush, a bird, a bluebird,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>three herons, a dead hawk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rotting on a pole⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clear yellow!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is a piece of blue paper</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the grass or a threecluster of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>green walnuts swaying, children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>playing croquet or one boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fishing, a man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>swinging his pink fists</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as he walks⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is ladysthumb, forgetmenots</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the ditch, moss under</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the flange of the carrail, the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>wavy lines in split rock, a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>great oaktree⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is a disinclination to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>five red petals or a rose, it is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a cluster of birdsbreast flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on a red stem six feet high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>four open yellow petals</span>
				<br/>
				<span>above sepals curled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>backward into reverse spikes⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tufts of purple grass spot the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>green meadow and clouds the sky.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="queen-ann’s-lace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Queen-Ann’s-Lace</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her body is not so white as</span>
				<br/>
				<span>anemony petals nor so smooth⁠—nor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>so remote a thing. It is a field</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the wild carrot taking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the field by force; the grass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>does not raise above it.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here is no question of whiteness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>white as can be, with a purple mole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at the center of each flower.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each flower is a hand’s span</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of her whiteness. Wherever</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his hand has lain there is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a tiny purple blemish. Each part</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is a blossom under his touch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to which the fibres of her being</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stem one by one, each to its end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>until the whole field is a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>white desire, empty, a single stem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a cluster, flower by flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a pious wish to whiteness gone over⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or nothing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="great-mullen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Great Mullen</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One leaves his leaves at home</span>
				<br/>
				<span>being a mullen and sends up a lighthouse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to peer from: I will have my way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>yellow⁠—A mast with a lantern, ten</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fifty, a hundred, smaller and smaller</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as they grow more⁠—Liar, liar, liar!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You come from her! I can smell djer-kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on your clothes. Ha, ha! you come to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you⁠—I am a point of dew on a grass-stem.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why are you sending heat down on me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from your lantern?⁠—You are cowdung, a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dead stick with the bark off. She is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>squirting on us both. She has had her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hand on you!⁠—Well?⁠—She has defiled</span>
				<br/>
				<span><b>Me.</b>⁠—Your leaves are dull, thick</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and hairy.⁠—Every hair on my body will</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hold you off from me. You are a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dungcake, birdlime on a fencerail.⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love you, straight, yellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>finger of God pointing to⁠—her!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Liar, broken weed, duncake, you have⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am a cricket waving his antenae</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and you are high, grey and straight. Ha!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="waiting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Waiting</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When I am alone I am happy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The air is cool. The sky is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>flecked and splashed and wound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with color. The crimson phalloi</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the sassafrass leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hang crowded before me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in shoals on the heavy branches.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I reach my doorstep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am greeted by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the happy shrieks of my children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and my heart sinks.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am crushed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Are not my children as dear to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as falling leaves or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>must one become stupid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to grow older?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems much as if Sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>had tripped up my heels.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us see, let us see!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What did I plan to say to her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>when it should happen to me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as it has happened now?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-hunter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Hunter</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the flashes and black shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of July</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the days, locked in each other’s arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>seem still</span>
				<br/>
				<span>so that squirrels and colored birds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>go about at ease over</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the branches and through the air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where will a shoulder split or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a forehead open and victory be?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nowhere.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both sides grow older.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And you may be sure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>not one leaf will lift itself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from the ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and become fast to a twig again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="arrival" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Arrival</h2>
			<p>
				<span>And yet one arrives somehow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>finds himself loosening the hooks of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>her dress</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in a strange bedroom⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>feels the autumn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dropping its silk and linen leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>about her ankles.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tawdry veined body emerges</span>
				<br/>
				<span>twisted upon itself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like a winter wind⁠ ⁠… !</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-friend-concerning-several-ladies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Friend Concerning Several Ladies</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You know there is not much</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that I desire, a few crysanthemums</span>
				<br/>
				<span>half lying on the grass, yellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and brown and white, the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>talk of a few people, the trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>an expanse of dried leaves perhaps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with ditches among them.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But there comes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>between me and these things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a letter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>or even a look⁠—well placed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>you understand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>so that I am confused, twisted</span>
				<br/>
				<span>four ways and⁠—left flat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>unable to lift the food to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my own mouth:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here is what they say: Come!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and come! and come! And if</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not go I remain stale to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>myself and if I go⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i8">I have watched</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the city from a distance at night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and wondered why I wrote no poem.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come! yes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the city is ablaze for you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and you stand and look at it.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And they are right. There is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>no good in the world except out of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a woman and certain women alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for certain things. But what if</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I arrive like a turtle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with my house on my back or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a fish ogling from under water?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It will not do. I must be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>steaming with love, colored</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like a flamingo. For what?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To have legs and a silly head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and to smell, pah! like a flamingo</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that soils its own feathers behind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must I go home filled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with a bad poem?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who can answer these things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>till he has tried? Your eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are half closed, you are a child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>oh, a sweet one, ready to play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but I will make a man of you and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with love on his shoulder⁠—!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And in the marshes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the crickets run</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on the sunny dike’s top and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>make burrows there, the water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>reflects the reeds and the reeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>move on their stalks and rattle drily.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="youth-and-beauty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Youth and Beauty</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I bought a dishmop⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>having no daughter⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for they had twisted</span>
				<br/>
				<span>fine ribbons of shining copper</span>
				<br/>
				<span>about white twine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and made a towsled head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of it, fastened it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>upon a turned ash stick</span>
				<br/>
				<span>slender at the neck</span>
				<br/>
				<span>straight, tall⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>when tied upright</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on the brass wallbracket</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to be a light for me⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and naked,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as a girl should seem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to her father.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-thinker" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Thinker</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My wife’s new pink slippers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>have gay pom-poms.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is not a spot or a stain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on their satin toes or their sides.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All night they lie together</span>
				<br/>
				<span>under her bed’s edge.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shivering I catch sight of them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and smile, in the morning.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Later I watch them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>descending the stair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hurrying through the doors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and round the table,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>moving stiffly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with a shake of their gay pom-poms!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I talk to them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in my secret mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span>out of pure happiness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-disputants" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Disputants</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Upon the table in their bowl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in violent disarray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of yellow sprays, green spikes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of leaves, red pointed petals</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and curled heads of blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and white among the litter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the forks and crumbs and plates</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the flowers remain composed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cooly their colloquy continues</span>
				<br/>
				<span>above the coffee and loud talk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>grown frail as vaudeville.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-tulip-bed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Tulip Bed</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The May sun⁠—whom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>all things imitate⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that glues small leaves to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the wooden trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>shone from the sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>through bluegauze clouds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>upon the ground.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under the leafy trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where the suburban streets</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lay crossed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with houses on each corner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>tangled shadows had begun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to join</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the roadway and the lawns.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With excellent precision</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the tulip bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>inside the iron fence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>upreared its gaudy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>yellow, white and red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>rimmed round with grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>reposedly.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-birds" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Birds</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The world begins again!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not wholly insufflated</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the blackbirds in the rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>upon the dead topbranches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the living tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stuck fast to the low clouds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>notate the dawn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their shrill cries sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>announcing appetite</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and drop among the bending roses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the dripping grass.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-nightingales" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Nightingales</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My shoes as I lean</span>
				<br/>
				<span>unlacing them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>stand out upon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>flat worsted flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>under my feet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nimbly the shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of my fingers play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>unlacing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>over shoes and flowers.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="spouts" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Spouts</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In this world of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as fine a pair of breasts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as ever I saw</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the fountain in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Madison Square</span>
				<br/>
				<span>spouts up of water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>a white tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that dies and lives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>as the rocking water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the basin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>turns from the stonerim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>back upon the jet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and rising there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>reflectively drops down again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="blueflags" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Blueflags</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I stopped the car</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to let the children down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where the streets end</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at the marsh edge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the reeds begin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and there are small houses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>facing the reeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and the blue mist</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the distance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with grapevine trellises</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with grape clusters</span>
				<br/>
				<span>small as strawberries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on the vines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and ditches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>running springwater</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that continue the gutters</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with willows over them.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The reeds begin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like water at a shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>their pointed petals waving</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dark green and light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But blueflags are blossoming</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the reeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>which the children pluck</span>
				<br/>
				<span>chattering in the reeds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>high over their heads</span>
				<br/>
				<span>which they part</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with bare arms to appear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with fists of flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>till in the air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>there comes the smell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of calamus</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from wet, gummy stalks.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-widows-lament-in-springtime" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Widow’s Lament in Springtime</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sorrow is my own yard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where the new grass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>flames as it has flamed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>often before but not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with the cold fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that closes round me this year.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thirtyfive years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I lived with my husband.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The plumtree is white today</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with masses of flowers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Masses of flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>load the cherry branches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and color some bushes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>yellow and some red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>but the grief in my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is stronger than they</span>
				<br/>
				<span>for though they were my joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>formerly, today I notice them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and turn away forgetting.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today my son told me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that in the meadows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>at the edge of the heavy woods</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in the distance, he saw</span>
				<br/>
				<span>trees of white flowers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I feel that I would like</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to go there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and fall into those flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and sink into the marsh near them.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="light-hearted-william" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Light Hearted William</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Light hearted William twirled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his November moustaches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and, half dressed, looked</span>
				<br/>
				<span>from the bedroom window</span>
				<br/>
				<span>upon the spring weather.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heigh-ya! sighed he gaily</span>
				<br/>
				<span>leaning out to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>up and down the street</span>
				<br/>
				<span>where a heavy sunlight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>lay beyond some blue shadows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Into the room he drew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>his head again and laughed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to himself quietly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>twirling his green moustaches.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="portrait-of-the-author" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Portrait of the Author</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The birches are mad with green points</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the wood’s edge is burning with their green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>burning, seething⁠—No, no, no.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The birches are opening their leaves one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>by one. Their delicate leaves unfold cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and separate, one by one. Slender tassels</span>
				<br/>
				<span>hang swaying from the delicate branch tips⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, I cannot say it. There is no word.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Black is split at once into flowers. In</span>
				<br/>
				<span>every bog and ditch, flares of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>small fire, white flowers!⁠—Agh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>the birches are mad, mad with their green.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world is gone, torn into shreds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with this blessing. What have I left undone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that I should have undertaken</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O my brother, you redfaced, living man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>ignorant, stupid whose feet are upon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>this same dirt that I touch⁠—and eat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We are alone in this terror, alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>face to face on this road, you and I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>wrapped by this flame!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let the polished plows stay idle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>their gloss already on the black soil.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that face of yours⁠—!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Answer me. I will clutch you. I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>will hug you, grip you. I will poke my face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into your face and force you to see me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take me in your arms, tell me the commonest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>thing that is in your mind to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>say anything. I will understand you⁠—!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is the madness of the birch leaves opening</span>
				<br/>
				<span>cold, one by one.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My rooms will receive me. But my rooms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>are no longer sweet spaces where comfort</span>
				<br/>
				<span>is ready to wait on me with its crumbs.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A darkness has brushed them. The mass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of yellow tulips in the bowl is shrunken.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every familiar object is changed and dwarfed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am shaken, broken against a might</span>
				<br/>
				<span>that splits comfort, blows apart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>my careful partitions, crushes my house</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and leaves me⁠—with shrinking heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and startled, empty eyes⁠—peering out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>into a cold world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the spring I would drink! In the spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would be drunk and lie forgetting all things.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your face! Give me your face, Yang Kue Fei!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>your hands, your lips to drink!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give me your wrists to drink⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I drag you, I am drowned in you, you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>overwhelm me! Drink!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save me! The shad bush is in the edge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of the clearing. The yards in a fury</span>
				<br/>
				<span>of lilac blossoms are driving me mad with terror.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drink and lie forgetting the world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And coldly the birch leaves are opening one by one.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Coldly I observe them and wait for the end.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it ends.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-lonely-street" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Lonely Street</h2>
			<p>
				<span>School is over. It is too hot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to walk at ease. At ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in light frocks they walk the streets</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to while the time away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They have grown tall. They hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>pink flames in their right hands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In white from head to foot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with sidelong, idle look⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in yellow, floating stuff,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>black sash and stockings⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>touching their avid mouths</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with pink sugar on a stick⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>like a carnation each holds in her hand⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>they mount the lonely street.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-great-figure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Great Figure</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Among the rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and lights</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I saw the figure 5</span>
				<br/>
				<span>in gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>on a red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>firetruck</span>
				<br/>
				<span>moving</span>
				<br/>
				<span>with weight and urgency</span>
				<br/>
				<span>tense</span>
				<br/>
				<span>unheeded</span>
				<br/>
				<span>to gong clangs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>siren howls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and wheels rumbling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>through the dark city.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
