<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Al Que Quiere!</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="al-que-quiere" epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:volume">
			<article id="sub_terra" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sub Terra</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Where shall I find you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you my grotesque fellows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that I seek everywhere</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to make up my band?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None, not one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with the earthy tastes I require;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the burrowing pride that rises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>subtly as on a bush in May.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where are you this day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you my seven year locusts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with cased wings?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah my beauties how I long⁠—!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That harvest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that shall be your advent⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>thrusting up through the grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>up under the weeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>answering me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>that</em> shall be satisfying!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The light shall leap and snap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that day as with a million lashes!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, I have you; yes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you are about me in a sense:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>playing under the blue pools</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that are my windows⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but they shut you out still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>there in the half light.</span>
		
					<span>For the simple truth is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that though I see you clear enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you are not there!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is not that⁠—it is you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you I want!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>—God, if I could fathom</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">the guts of shadows!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You to come with me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>poking into negro houses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with their gloom and smell!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In among children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>leaping around a dead dog!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mimicking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>onto the lawns of the rich!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to go with me a-tip-toe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>head down under heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>nostrils lipping the wind!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="pastoral1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Pastoral</h2>
				<p>
					<span>When I was younger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it was plain to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must make something of myself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Older now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I walk back streets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>admiring the houses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the very poor:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>roof out of line with sides</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the yards cluttered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with old chicken wire, ashes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>furniture gone wrong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the fences and outhouses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>built of barrel-staves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and parts of boxes, all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if I am fortunate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>smeared a bluish green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that properly weathered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>pleases me best</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of all colors.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">No one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>will believe this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of vast import to the nation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="chickory_and_daisies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Chickory and Daisies</h2>
				<section id="chickory_and_daisies-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Lift your flowers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on bitter stems</span>
						<br/>
						<span>chickory!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lift them up</span>
						<br/>
						<span>out of the scorched ground!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bear no foliage</span>
						<br/>
						<span>but give yourself</span>
						<br/>
						<span>wholly to that!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Strain under them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>you bitter stems</span>
						<br/>
						<span>that no beast eats⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and scorn greyness!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the heat with them:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>cool!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>luxuriant! sky-blue!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The earth cracks and</span>
						<br/>
						<span>is shriveled up;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the wind moans piteously;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the sky goes out</span>
						<br/>
						<span>if you should fail.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="chickory_and_daisies-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I saw a child with daisies</span>
						<br/>
						<span>for weaving into the hair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>tear the stems</span>
						<br/>
						<span>with her teeth!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="metric_figure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Metric Figure</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There is a bird in the poplars!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the sun!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The leaves are little yellow fish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>swimming in the river.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bird skims above them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>day is on his wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Phoebus!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is he that is making</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the great gleam among the poplars!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is his singing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>outshines the noise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of leaves clashing in the wind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="woman_walking" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Woman Walking</h2>
				<p>
					<span>An oblique cloud of purple smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>across a milky silhouette</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of house sides and tiny trees⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a little village⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that ends in a saw edge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of mist-covered trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on a sheet of grey sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To the right, jutting in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a dark crimson corner of roof.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the left, half a tree:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">—what a blessing it is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to see you in the street again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>powerful woman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>coming with swinging haunches,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>breasts straight forward,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>supple shoulders, full arms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and strong, soft hands (I’ve felt them)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>carrying the heavy basket.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might well see you oftener!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for a different reason</span>
					<br/>
					<span>than the fresh eggs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you bring us so regularly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, you, young as I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with boney brows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>kind grey eyes and a kind mouth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you walking out toward me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from that dead hillside!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might well see you oftener.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="gulls" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Gulls</h2>
				<p>
					<span>My townspeople, beyond in the great world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are many with whom it were far more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>profitable for me to live than here with you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These whirr about me calling, calling!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and for my own part I answer them, loud as I can,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but they, being free, pass!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I remain! Therefore, listen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you will not soon have another singer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>First I say this: you have seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the strange birds, have you not, that sometimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rest upon our river in winter?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let them cause you to think well then of the storms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that drive many to shelter. These things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>do not happen without reason.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the next thing I say is this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw an eagle once circling against the clouds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over one of our principal churches⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Easter, it was⁠—a beautiful day!⁠—:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>three gulls came from above the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and crossed slowly seaward!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, I know you have your own hymns, I have heard them⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and because I knew they invoked some great protector</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could not be angry with you, no matter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>how much they outraged true music⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You see, it is not necessary for us to leap at each other,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and, as I told you, in the end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the gulls moved seaward very quietly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="appeal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Appeal</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You who are so mighty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>crimson salamander,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hear me once more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I lay among the half burned sticks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the edge of the fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fiend was creeping in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I felt the cold tips of fingers⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O crimson salamander!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give me one little flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>one!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that I may bind it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>protectingly about the wrist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of him that flung me here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>here upon the very center!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This is my song.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in_harbor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">In Harbor</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Surely there, among the great docks, is peace, my mind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>there with the ships moored in the river.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go out, timid child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and snuggle in among the great ships talking so quietly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Maybe you will even fall asleep near them and be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lifted into one of their laps, and in the morning⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is always the morning in which to remember it all!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of what are they gossiping? God knows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And God knows it matters little for we cannot understand them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet it is certainly of the sea, of that there can be no question.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a quiet sound. Rest! That’s all I care for now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smell of them will put us to sleep presently.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smell! It is the sea water mingling here into the river⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at least so it seems⁠—perhaps it is something else⁠—but what matter?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sea water! It is quiet and smooth here!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How slowly they move, little by little trying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the hawsers that drop and groan with their agony.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, it is certainly of the high sea they are talking.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="winter_sunset" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Winter Sunset</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Then I raised my head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and stared out over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the blue February waste</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the blue bank of hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with stars on it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in strings and festoons⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but above that:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>one opaque</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stone of a cloud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>just on the hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>left and right</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as far as I could see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and above that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a red streak, then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>icy blue sky!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was a fearful thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to come into a man’s heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at that time: that stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over the little blinking stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they’d set there.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="apology" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Apology</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Why do I write today?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The beauty of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the terrible faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of our nonentities</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stirs me to it:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>colored women</span>
					<br/>
					<span>day workers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>old and experienced⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>returning home at dusk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in cast off clothing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>faces like</span>
					<br/>
					<span>old Florentine oak.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Also</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>the set pieces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of your faces stir me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>leading citizens⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the same way.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="pastoral2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Pastoral</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The little sparrows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hop ingenuously</span>
					<br/>
					<span>about the pavement</span>
					<br/>
					<span>quarreling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with sharp voices</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over those things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that interest them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But we who are wiser</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shut ourselves in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on either hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and no one knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>whether we think good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or evil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Meanwhile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the old man who goes about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>gathering dog-lime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>walks in the gutter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>without looking up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and his tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is more majestic than</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that of the Episcopal minister</span>
					<br/>
					<span>approaching the pulpit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of a Sunday.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">These things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>astonish me beyond words.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="love_song1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Love Song</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Daisies are broken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>petals are news of the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stems lift to the grass tops</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they catch on shoes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>part in the middle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>leave root and leaves secure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Black branches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>carry square leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the wood’s top.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They hold firm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>break with a roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>show the white!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your moods are slow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the shedding of leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the return in May!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We walked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in your father’s grove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and saw the great oaks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lying with roots</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ripped from the ground.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="m_b" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">M. B.</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Winter has spent this snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>out of envy, but spring is here!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sits at the breakfast table</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in his yellow hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and disdains even the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>walking outside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in spangled slippers:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He looks out: there is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a glare of lights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>before a theater,⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a sparkling lady</span>
					<br/>
					<span>passes quickly to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the seclusion of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>her carriage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Presently</span>
					<br/>
					<span>under the dirty, wavy heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of a borrowed room he will make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>re-inhaled tobacco smoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his clouds and try them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the sky’s limits!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tract" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Tract</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I will teach you my townspeople</span>
					<br/>
					<span>how to perform a funeral⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for you have it over a troop</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of artists⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>unless one should scour the world⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you have the ground sense necessary.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See! the hearse leads.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I begin with a design for a hearse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Christ’s sake not black⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>nor white either⁠—and not polished!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let it be weathered⁠—like a farm wagon⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with gilt wheels (this could be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>applied fresh at small expense)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or no wheels at all:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a rough dray to drag over the ground.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Knock the glass out!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My God⁠—glass, my townspeople!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what purpose? Is it for the dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to look out or for us to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>how well he is housed or to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the flowers or the lack of them⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or what?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep the rain and snow from him?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will have a heavier rain soon:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>pebbles and dirt and what not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let there be no glass⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and no upholstery phew!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and no little brass rollers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and small easy wheels on the bottom⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my townspeople what are you thinking of?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A rough plain hearse then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with gilt wheels and no top at all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this the coffin lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>by its own weight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i7">No wreathes please⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>especially no hot house flowers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some common memento is better,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>something he prized and is known by:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his old clothes⁠—a few books perhaps⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God knows what! You realize</span>
					<br/>
					<span>how we are about these things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my townspeople⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>something will be found⁠—anything</span>
					<br/>
					<span>even flowers if he had come to that.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So much for the hearse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For heaven’s sake though see to the driver!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take off the silk hat! In fact</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that’s no place at all for him⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>up there unceremoniously</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dragging our friend out to his own dignity!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring him down⁠—bring him down!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Low and inconspicuous! I’d not have him ride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on the wagon at all⁠—damn him⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the undertaker’s understrapper!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let him hold the reins</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and walk at the side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and inconspicuously too!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then briefly as to yourselves:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk behind⁠—as they do in France,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>seventh class, or if you ride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hell take curtains! Go with some show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of inconvenience; sit openly⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the weather as to grief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or do you think you can shut grief in?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What⁠—from us? We who have perhaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>nothing to lose? Share with us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>share with us⁠—it will be money</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in your pockets.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Go now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think you are ready.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<p/>
			<article id="promenade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Promenade</h2>
				<section id="promenade-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Well, mind, here we have</span>
						<br/>
						<span>our little son beside us:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a little diversion before breakfast!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Come, we’ll walk down the road</span>
						<br/>
						<span>till the bacon will be frying.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We might better be idle?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A poem might come of it?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Oh, be useful. Save annoyance</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to Flossie and besides⁠—the wind!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s cold. It blows our</span>
						<br/>
						<span>old pants out! It makes us shiver!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See the heavy trees</span>
						<br/>
						<span>shifting their weight before it.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Let us be trees, an old house,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a hill with grass on it!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The baby’s arms are blue.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come, move! Be quieted!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="romancero-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p>
						<span>So. We’ll sit here now</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and throw pebbles into</span>
						<br/>
						<span>this water-trickle.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span class="i5">Splash the water up!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(Splash it up, Sonny!) Laugh!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hit it there deep under the grass.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>See it splash! Ah, mind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>see it splash! It is alive!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Throw pieces of broken leaves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>into it. They’ll pass through.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No! Yes⁠—just!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Away now for the cows! But⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s cold!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s getting dark.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It’s going to rain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No further!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="promenade-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Oh then, a wreath! Let’s</span>
						<br/>
						<span>refresh something they</span>
						<br/>
						<span>used to write well of.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Two fern plumes. Strip them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to the mid-rib along one side.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bind the tips with a grass stem.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bend and intertwist the stalks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>at the back. So!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ah! now we are crowned!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now we are a poet!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Quickly!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A bunch of little flowers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>for Flossie⁠—the little ones</span>
						<br/>
						<span>only:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">a red clover, one</span>
						<br/>
						<span>blue heal-all, a sprig of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>bone-set, one primrose,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a head of Indian tobacco, this</span>
						<br/>
						<span>magenta speck and this</span>
						<br/>
						<span>little lavender!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Home now, my mind!⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sonny’s arms are icy, I tell you⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and have breakfast!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="el_hombre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">El Hombre</h2>
				<p>
					<span>It’s a strange courage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you give me ancient star:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Shine alone in the sunrise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>toward which you lend no part!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hero" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Hero</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>put your adventures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into those things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>which break ships⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>not female flesh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let there pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over the mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the waters of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>four oceans, the airs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of four skies!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Return hollow-bellied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>keen-eyed, hard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A simple scar or two.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Little girls will come</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bringing you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>roses for your button-hole.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="libertad_igualdad_fraternidad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Libertad! Igualdad! Fraternidad!</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You sullen pig of a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you force me into the mud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with your stinking ash-cart!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Brother!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">—if we were rich</span>
					<br/>
					<span>we’d stick our chests out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and hold our heads high!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is dreams that have destroyed us.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There is no more pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in horses or in rein holding.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We sit hunched together brooding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>our fate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Well⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>all things turn bitter in the end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>whether you choose the right or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the left way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">and⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dreams are not a bad thing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="canthara" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Canthara</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The old black-man showed me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>how he had been shocked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in his youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>by six women, dancing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a set-dance, stark naked below</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the skirts raised round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>their breasts:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">bellies flung forward</span>
					<br/>
					<span>knees flying!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">—while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his gestures, against the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>tiled wall of the dingy bath-room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>swished with ecstasy to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the familiar music of</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">his old emotion.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mujer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Mujer</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, black Persian cat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was not your life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>already cursed with offspring?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We took you for rest to that old</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yankee farm⁠—so lonely</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and with so many field mice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the long grass⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and you return to us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in this condition⁠—!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, black Persian cat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="summer_song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Summer Song</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Wanderer moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>smiling a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>faintly ironical smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>brilliant, dew-moistened</span>
					<br/>
					<span>summer morning⁠,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a detached</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sleepily indifferent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>smile, a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>wanderer’s smile,⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if I should</span>
					<br/>
					<span>buy a shirt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>your color and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>put on a necktie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sky blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where would they carry me?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="love_song2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Love Song</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Sweep the house clean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hang fresh curtains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the windows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>put on a new dress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and come with me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The elm is scattering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>its little loaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of sweet smells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from a white sky!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who shall hear of us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the time to come?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let him say there was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a burst of fragrance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from black branches.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="foreign" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Foreign</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Artsybashev is a Russian.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am an American.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let us wonder, my townspeople,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if Artsybashev tends his own fires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as I do, gets himself cursed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for the baby’s failure to thrive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>loosens windows for the woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>who cleans his parlor⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or has he neat servants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and a quiet library, an</span>
					<br/>
					<span>intellectual wife perhaps and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>no children⁠—an apartment</span>
					<br/>
					<span>somewhere in a back street or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lives alone or with his mother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or sister⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I wonder, my townspeople,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if Artsybashev looks upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>himself the more concernedly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or succeeds any better than I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in laying the world.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I wonder which is the bigger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fool in his own mind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>These are shining topics</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my townspeople but⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hardly of great moment.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a_prelude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Prelude</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I know only the bare rocks of today.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In these lies my brown sea-weed⁠,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>green quartz veins bent through the wet shale;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in these lie my pools left by the tide⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>quiet, forgetting waves;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on these stiffen white star fish;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on these I slip bare footed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whispers of the fishy air touch my body;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Sisters,” I say to them.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="history" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">History</h2>
				<section id="history-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p>
						<span>A wind might blow a lotus petal</span>
						<br/>
						<span>over the pyramids⁠—but not this wind.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Summer is a dried leaf.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Leaves stir this way then that</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on the baked asphalt, the wheels</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of motor cars rush over them,⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">gas smells mingle with leaf smells.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Oh, Sunday, day of worship!!!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The steps to the museum are high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Worshippers pass in and out.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nobody comes here today.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I come here to mingle faiance dug</span>
						<br/>
						<span>from the tomb, turquoise colored</span>
						<br/>
						<span>necklaces and belched wind from the</span>
						<br/>
						<span>stomach; delicately veined basins</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of agate, cracked and discolored and</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the stink of stale urine!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Enter! Elbow in at the door.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Men? Women?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Simpering, clay fetish-faces counting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>through the turnstile.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i9">Ah!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="history-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p>
						<span>This sarcophagus contained the body</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of Uresh-Nai, priestess to the goddess Mut,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mother of All⁠—</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Run your finger against this edge!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>—here went the chisel!⁠—and think</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of an arrogance endured six thousand years</span>
						<br/>
						<span>without a flaw!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But love is an oil to embalm the body.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Love is a packet of spices, a strong</span>
						<br/>
						<span>smelling liquid to be squirted into</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the thigh. No?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Love rubbed on a bald head will make</span>
						<br/>
						<span>hair⁠—and after? Love is</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a lice comber!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Gnats on dung!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“The chisel is in your hand, the block</span>
						<br/>
						<span>is before you, cut as I shall dictate:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>this is the coffin of Uresh-Nai,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>priestess to the sky goddess⁠,—built</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to endure forever!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i7">Carve the inside</span>
						<br/>
						<span>with the image of my death in</span>
						<br/>
						<span>little lines of figures three fingers high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Put a lid on it cut with Mut bending over</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the earth, for my headpiece, and in the year</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to be chosen I will rouse, the lid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>shall be lifted and I will walk about</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the temple where they have rested me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and eat the air of the place:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ah⁠—these walls are high! This</span>
						<br/>
						<span>is in keeping.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="history-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The priestess has passed into her tomb.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The stone has taken up her spirit!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Granite over flesh: who will deny</span>
						<br/>
						<span>its advantages?</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Your death?⁠—water</span>
						<br/>
						<span>spilled upon the ground⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>though water will mount again into rose-leaves⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>but you?⁠—would hold life still,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>even as a memory, when it is over.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Benevolence is rare.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Climb about this sarcophagus, read</span>
						<br/>
						<span>what is writ for you in these figures,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>hard as the granite that has held them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>with so soft a hand the while</span>
						<br/>
						<span>your own flesh has been fifty times</span>
						<br/>
						<span>through the guts of oxen,⁠—read!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“The rose-tree will have its donor</span>
						<br/>
						<span>even though he give stingily.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The gift of some endures</span>
						<br/>
						<span>ten years, the gift of some twenty</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and the gift of some for the time a</span>
						<br/>
						<span>great house rots and is torn down.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Some give for a thousand years to men of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>one face, some for a thousand</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to all men and some few to all men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>while granite holds an edge against</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the weather.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">Judge then of love!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="history-4" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“My flesh is turned to stone. I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>have endured my summer. The flurry</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of falling petals is ended. Lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the finger upon this granite. I was</span>
						<br/>
						<span>well desired and fully caressed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>by many lovers but my flesh</span>
						<br/>
						<span>withered swiftly and my heart was</span>
						<br/>
						<span>never satisfied. Lay your hands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>upon the granite as a lover lays his</span>
						<br/>
						<span>hand upon the thigh and upon the</span>
						<br/>
						<span>round breasts of her who is</span>
						<br/>
						<span>beside him, for now I will not wither,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>now I have thrown off secrecy, now</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I have walked naked into the street,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>now I have scattered my heavy beauty</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in the open market.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here I am with head high and a</span>
						<br/>
						<span>burning heart eagerly awaiting</span>
						<br/>
						<span>your caresses, whoever it may be,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>for granite is not harder than</span>
						<br/>
						<span>my love is open, runs loose among you!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I arrogant against death! I</span>
						<br/>
						<span>who have endured! I worn against</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the years!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="history-5" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p>
						<span>But it is five o’clock. Come!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Life is good⁠—enjoy it!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A walk in the park while the day lasts.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I will go with you. Look! this</span>
						<br/>
						<span>northern scenery is not the Nile, but⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>these benches⁠—the yellow and purple dusk⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the moon there⁠—these tired people⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the lights on the water!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Are not these Jews and⁠—Ethiopians?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The world is young, surely! Young</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and colored like⁠—a girl that has come upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a lover! Will that do?</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="winter_quiet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Winter Quiet</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Limb to limb, mouth to mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with the bleached grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>silver mist lies upon the back yards</span>
					<br/>
					<span>among the outhouses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">The dwarf trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>pirouette awkwardly to it⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>whirling round on one toe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the big tree smiles and glances</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i11">upward!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tense with suppressed excitement</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the fences watch where the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>has humped an aching shoulder for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">the ecstasy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dawn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dawn</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Ecstatic bird songs pound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the hollow vastness of the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with metallic clinkings⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>beating color up into it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at a far edge⁠—beating it, beating it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with rising, triumphant ardor⁠,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stirring it into warmth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>quickening in it a spreading change,⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bursting wildly against it as</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dividing the horizon, a heavy sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lifts himself⁠—is lifted⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bit by bit above the edge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of things,⁠—runs free at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>out into the open⁠—! lumbering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>glorified in full release upward⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i11">songs cease.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="good_night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Good Night</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In brilliant gas light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I turn the kitchen spigot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and watch the water plash</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into the clean white sink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the grooved drain-board</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to one side is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a glass filled with parsley⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>crisped green.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Waiting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for the water to freshen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I glance at the spotless floor⁠—:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a pair of rubber sandals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lie side by side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>under the wall-table,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>all is in order for the night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Waiting, with a glass in my hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—three girls in crimson satin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>pass close before me on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the murmurous background of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the crowded opera⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">it is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>memory playing the clown⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>three vague, meaningless girls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>full of smells and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the rustling sound of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cloth rubbing on cloth and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>little slippers on carpet⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>high-school French</span>
					<br/>
					<span>spoken in a loud voice!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Parsley in a glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>still and shining,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>brings me back. I take my drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and yawn deliciously.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am ready for bed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="danse_russe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Danse Russe</h2>
				<p>
					<span>If I when my wife is sleeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the baby and Kathleen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are sleeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the sun is a flame-white disc</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in silken mists</span>
					<br/>
					<span>above shining trees⁠,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if I in my north room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>danse naked, grotesquely</span>
					<br/>
					<span>before my mirror</span>
					<br/>
					<span>waving my shirt round my head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and singing softly to myself:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I am lonely, lonely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I was born to be lonely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am best so!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I admire my arms, my face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my shoulders, flanks, buttocks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the yellow drawn shades⁠,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>who shall say I am not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the happy genius of my household?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="portrait_of_a_woman_in_bed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Portrait of a Woman in Bed</h2>
				<p>
					<span>There’s my things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>drying in the corner:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that blue skirt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>joined to the grey shirt⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’m sick of trouble!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lift the covers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if you want me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and you’ll see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the rest of my clothes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>though it would be cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lying with nothing on!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I won’t work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and I’ve got no cash.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What are you going to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>about it?</span>
				<br/>
					<span>—and no jewelry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(the crazy fools)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But I’ve my two eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and a smooth face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and here’s this! look!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it’s high!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s brains and blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in there⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my name’s Robitza!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Corsets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>can go to the devil⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and drawers along with them!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What do I care!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My two boys?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—they’re keen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let the rich lady</span>
					<br/>
					<span>care for them⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they’ll beat the school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>let them go to the gutter⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that ends trouble.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This house is empty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>isn’t it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then it’s mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>because I need it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, I won’t starve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>while there’s the Bible</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to make them feed me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Try to help me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>if you want trouble</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or leave me alone⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that ends trouble.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The county physician</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is a damned fool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>can go to hell!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You could have closed the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>when you came in;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>do it when you go out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m tired.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="virtue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Virtue</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Now? Why⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>whirl-pools of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>orange and purple flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>feather twists of chrome</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on a green ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>funneling down upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the steaming phallus-head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the mad sun himself⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>blackened crimson!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Now?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it is the smile of her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the smell of her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the vulgar inviting mouth of her!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is⁠—Oh, nothing new</span>
					<br/>
					<span>nothing that lasts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>an eternity, nothing worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>putting out to interest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>nothing⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but the fixing of an eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>concretely upon emptiness!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come! here are⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cross-eyed men, a boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with a patch, men walking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in their shirts, men in hats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dark men, a pale man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with little black moustaches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and a dirty white coat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fat men with pudgy faces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>thin faces, crooked faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>slit eyes, grey eyes, black eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>old men with dirty beards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>men in vests with</span>
					<br/>
					<span>gold watch chains. Come!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="conquest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Conquest<br/><em>Dedicated to F. W.</em></h2>
				<p>
					<span>Hard, chilly colors:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>straw grey, frost grey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the grey of frozen ground:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and you, O sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>close above the horizon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is I holds you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>half against the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>half against a black tree trunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>icily resplendent!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lie there, blue city, mine at last⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rimming the banked blue grey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and rise, indescribable smoky yellow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into the overpowering white!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="portrait_of_a_young_man_with_a_bad_heart" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Portrait of a Young Man with a Bad Heart</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Have I seen her?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only through the window</span>
					<br/>
					<span>across the street.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If I go meeting her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on the corner</span>
					<br/>
					<span>some damned fool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>will go blabbing it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the old man and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>she’ll get hell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s a queer old bastard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every time he sees me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you’d think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wanted to kill him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I figure it out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it’s best to let things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stay as they are⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for a while at least.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s hard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>giving up the thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you want most</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the world, but with this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>damned pump of mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>liable to give out …</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She’s a good kid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and I’d hate to hurt her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but if she can get over it⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>it’d be the best thing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="keller_gegen_dom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Keller Gegen Dom</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Witness, would you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>one more young man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the evening of his love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hurrying to confession:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>steps down a gutter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>crosses a street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>goes in at a doorway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>opens for you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like some great flower⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a room filled with lamplight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or whirls himself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>obediently to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the curl of a hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>some wind-dancing afternoon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lies for you in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the futile darkness of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a wall, sets stars dancing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the crack of a leaf⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>and⁠—leaning his head away⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>snuffs (secretly)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the bitter powder from</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his thumb’s hollow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>takes your blessing and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>goes home to bed?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Witness instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>whether you like it or not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a dark vinegar smelling place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from which trickles</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the chuckle of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>beginning laughter</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It strikes midnight.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<p/>
			<article id="smell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Smell!</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Oh strong ridged and deeply hollowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>nose of mine! what will you not be smelling?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What tactless asses we are, you and I, boney nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>always indiscriminate, always unashamed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and now it is the souring flowers of the bedraggled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>poplars: a festering pulp on the wet earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>beneath them. With what deep thirst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>we quicken our desires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to that rank odor of a passing spring-time!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can you not be decent? Can you not reserve your ardors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for something less unlovely? What girl will care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for us, do you think, if we continue in these ways?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must you taste everything? Must you know everything?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must you have a part in everything?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ballet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ballet</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Are you not weary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>great gold cross</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shining in the wind⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are you not weary</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of seeing the stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>turning over you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>going to his rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and you frozen with</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a great lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that leaves you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rigid as a knight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on a marble coffin?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>—and you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>higher, still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">robin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>untwisting a song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from the bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>top-twigs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are you not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>weary of labor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>even the labor of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a song?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come down⁠—join me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for I am lonely.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>First it will be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a quiet pace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to ease our stiffness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but as the west yellows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you will be ready!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here in the middle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the roadway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>we will fling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ourselves round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with dust lilies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>till we are bound in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>their twining stems!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We will tear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>their flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with arms flashing!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the astonished stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>push aside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>their curtains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they will see us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fall exhausted where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>wheels and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the pounding feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of horses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>will crush forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>our laughter.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sympathetic_portrait_of_a_child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Sympathetic Portrait of a Child</h2>
				<p>
					<span>The murderer’s little daughter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>who is barely ten years old</span>
					<br/>
					<span>jerks her shoulders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>right and left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>so as to catch a glimpse of me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>without turning round.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her skinny little arms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>wrap themselves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>this way then that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>reversely about her body!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nervously</span>
					<br/>
					<span>she crushes her straw hat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>about her eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and tilts her head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to deepen the shadow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>smiling excitedly!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As best as she can</span>
					<br/>
					<span>she hides herself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the full sunlight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>her cordy legs writhing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>beneath the little flowered dress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that leaves them bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from mid-thigh to ankle⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why has she chosen me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for the knife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that darts along her smile?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the_ogre" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Ogre</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>little girl with well shaped legs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you cannot touch the thoughts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I put over and under and around you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This is fortunate for they would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>burn you to an ash otherwise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your petals would be quite curled up.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This is all beyond you⁠—no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>yet you do feel the brushings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the fine needles;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the tentative lines of your whole body</span>
					<br/>
					<span>prove it to me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>so does your fear of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>your shyness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>likewise the toy baby cart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that you are pushing⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and besides, mother has begun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to dress your hair in a knot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These are my excuses.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="riposte" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Riposte</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Love is like water or the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my townspeople;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it cleanses, and dissipates evil gases.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is like poetry too</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and for the same reasons.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Love is so precious</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my townspeople</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that if I were you I would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>have it under lock and key⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like the air or the Atlantic or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like poetry!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<p/>
			<article id="the_old_men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Old Men</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Old men who have studied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>every leg show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the city</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old men cut from touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>by the perfumed music⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>polished or fleeced skulls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that stand before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the whole theater</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in silent attitudes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of attention⁠,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>old men who have taken precedence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over young men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and even over dark-faced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>husbands whose minds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are a street with arc-lights.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Solitary old men for whom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>we find no excuses⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bow my head in shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for those who malign you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the peaceful beer of impotence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>be yours!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="pastoral3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Pastoral</h2>
				<p>
					<span>If I say I have heard voices</span>
					<br/>
					<span>who will believe me?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">“None has dipped his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">in the black waters of the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">nor picked the yellow lilies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">that sway on their clear stems</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">and no tree has waited</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">long enough nor still enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">to touch fingers with the moon.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I looked and there were little frogs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with puffed out throats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>singing in the slime.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spring_strains" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Spring Strains</h2>
				<p>
					<span>In a tissue-thin monotone of blue-grey buds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>crowded erect with desire against</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the sky⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">tense blue-grey twigs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>slenderly anchoring them down, drawing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>them in⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">two blue-grey birds chasing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a third struggle in circles, angles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>swift convergings to a point that bursts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>instantly!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Vibrant bowing limbs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>pull downward, sucking in the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that bulges from behind, plastering itself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against them in packed rifts, rock blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and dirty orange!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">But⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Hold hard, rigid jointed trees!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the blinding and red-edged sun-blur⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>creeping energy, concentrated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>counterforce⁠—welds sky, buds, trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rivets them in one puckering hold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sticks through! Pulls the whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>counter-pulling mass upward, to the right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>locks even the opaque, not yet defined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ground in a terrific drag that is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>loosening the very tap-roots!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On a tissue-thin monotone of blue-grey buds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>two blue-grey birds, chasing a third,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at full cry! Now they are</span>
					<br/>
					<span>flung outward and up⁠—disappearing suddenly!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="trees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Trees</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Crooked, black tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on your little grey-black hillock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ridiculously raised one step toward</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the infinite summits of the night:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>even you the few grey stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>draw upward into a vague melody</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of harsh threads.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Bent as you are from straining</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the bitter horizontals of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a north wind⁠—there below you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>how easily the long yellow notes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of poplars flow upward in a descending</span>
					<br/>
					<span>scale, each note secure in its own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>posture⁠—singularly woven.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All voices are blent willingly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the heaving contra-bass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the dark but you alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>warp yourself passionately to one side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in your eagerness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a_portrait_in_greys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Portrait in Greys</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Will it never be possible</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to separate you from your greyness?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must you be always sinking backward</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into your grey-brown landscapes⁠—and trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>always in the distance, always against</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a grey sky?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Must I be always</span>
					<br/>
					<span>moving counter to you? Is there no place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where we can be at peace together</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the motion of our drawing apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>be altogether taken up?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">I see myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>standing upon your shoulders touching</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a grey, broken sky⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but you, weighted down with me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>yet gripping my ankles⁠—move</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">laboriously on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where it is level and undisturbed by colors.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="invitation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Invitation</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You who had the sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to choose me such a mother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you who had the indifference</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to create me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you who went to some pains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to leave hands off me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the formative stages,⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I thank you most for that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>perhaps)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">but you who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with an iron head, first,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fiercest and with strongest love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>brutalized me into strength,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>old dew-lap⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have reached the stage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where I am teaching myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to laugh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">Come on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>take a walk with me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<p/>
			<article id="divertimiento" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Divertimiento</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Miserable little woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in a brown coat⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">quit whining!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My hand for you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ll skip down the tin cornices</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of Main Street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>flicking the dull roof-line</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with our toe-tips!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hop clear of the bank! A</span>
					<br/>
					<span>pin-wheel round the white flag-pole.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And I’ll sing you the while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a thing to split your sides</span>
					<br/>
					<span>about Johann Sebastian Bach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the father of music, who had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>three wives and twenty-two children.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="january_morning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">January Morning</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Suite</h3>
				<section id="january_morning-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<p>
						<span>I have discovered that most of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the beauties of travel are due to</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the strange hours we keep to see them:</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>the domes of the Church of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the Paulist Fathers in Weehawken</span>
						<br/>
						<span>against a smoky dawn⁠—the heart stirred⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>are beautiful as Saint Peters</span>
						<br/>
						<span>approached after years of anticipation.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Though the operation was postponed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw the tall probationers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in their tan uniforms</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">hurrying to breakfast!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<p>
						<span>—and from basement entrys</span>
						<br/>
						<span>neatly coiffed, middle aged gentlemen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>with orderly moustaches and</span>
						<br/>
						<span>well brushed coats</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-4" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>—and the sun, dipping into the avenues</span>
						<br/>
						<span>streaking the tops of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the irregular red houselets,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i11">and</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the gay shadows dropping and dropping.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-5" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<p>
						<span>—and a young horse with a green bed-quilt</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on his withers shaking his head:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>bared teeth and nozzle high in the air!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-6" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>—and a semicircle of dirt colored men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>about a fire bursting from an old</span>
						<br/>
						<span>ash can,</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-7" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<p>
						<span class="i5">—and the worn,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>blue car rails (like the sky!)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>gleaming among the cobbles!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-8" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>—and the rickety ferry-boat “Arden”!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>What an object to be called “Arden”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>among the great piers,⁠—on the</span>
						<br/>
						<span>ever new river!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">“Put me a Touchstone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>at the wheel, white gulls, and we’ll</span>
						<br/>
						<span>follow the ghost of the Half Moon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to the North West Passage⁠—and through!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(at Albany!) for all that!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-9" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Exquisite brown waves⁠—long</span>
						<br/>
						<span>circlets of silver moving over you!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>enough with crumbling ice-crusts among you!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sky has come down to you,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>lighter than tiny bubbles, face to</span>
						<br/>
						<span>face with you!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i8">His spirit is</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a white gull with delicate pink feet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and a snowy breast for you to</span>
						<br/>
						<span>hold to your lips delicately!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-10" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">X</h3>
					<p>
						<span>The young doctor is dancing with happiness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in the sparkling wind, alone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>at the prow of the ferry! He notices</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the curdy barnacles and broken ice crusts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>left at the slip’s base by the low tide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and thinks of summer and green</span>
						<br/>
						<span>shell crusted ledges among</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">the emerald eel-grass!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-11" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XI</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Who knows the Palisades as I do</span>
						<br/>
						<span>knows the river breaks east from them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>above the city⁠—but they continue south</span>
						<br/>
						<span>—under the sky⁠—to bear a crest of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>little peering houses that brighten</span>
						<br/>
						<span>with dawn behind the moody</span>
						<br/>
						<span>water-loving giants of Manhattan.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-12" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Long yellow rushes bending</span>
						<br/>
						<span>above the white snow patches;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>purple and gold ribbon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of the distant wood:</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i8">what an angle</span>
						<br/>
						<span>you make with each other as</span>
						<br/>
						<span>you lie there in contemplation.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-13" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Work hard all your young days</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and they’ll find you too, some morning</span>
						<br/>
						<span>staring up under</span>
						<br/>
						<span>your chiffonier at its warped</span>
						<br/>
						<span>bass-wood bottom and your soul⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>out!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>—among the little sparrows</span>
						<br/>
						<span>behind the shutter.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-14" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>—and the flapping flags are at</span>
						<br/>
						<span>half mast for the dead admiral.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="january_morning-15" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="title z3998:roman">XV</h3>
					<p>
						<span>All this⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">was for you, old woman.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I wanted to write a poem</span>
						<br/>
						<span>that you would understand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For what good is it to me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>if you can’t understand it?</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i5">But you got to try hard⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">Well, you know how</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the young girls run giggling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on Park Avenue after dark</span>
						<br/>
						<span>when they ought to be home in bed?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Well,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>that’s the way it is with me somehow.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="to_a_solitary_disciple" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">To a Solitary Disciple</h2>
				<p>
					<span>Rather notice, mon cher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that the moon is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>tilted above</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the point of the steeple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>than that its color</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is shell-pink.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rather observe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that it is early morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>than that the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is smooth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as a turquoise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rather grasp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>how the dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>converging lines</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the steeple</span>
					<br/>
					<span>meet at the pinnacle⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>perceive how</span>
					<br/>
					<span>its little ornament</span>
					<br/>
					<span>tries to stop them⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See how it fails!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See how the converging lines</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the hexagonal spire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>escape upward⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>receding, dividing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—sepals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that guard and contain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the flower!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Observe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>how motionless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the eaten moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lies in the protecting lines.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the light colors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>brown-stone and slate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shine orange and dark blue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But observe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the oppressive weight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the squat edifice!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the jasmine lightness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the moon.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dedication_for_a_plot_of_ground" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dedication for a Plot of Ground</h2>
				<p>
					<span>This plot of ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>facing the waters of this inlet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is dedicated to the living presence of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Emily Richardson Wellcome</span>
					<br/>
					<span>who was born in England; married;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lost her husband and with</span>
					<br/>
					<span>her five year old son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sailed for New York in a two-master;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>was driven to the Azores;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ran adrift on Fire Island shoal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>met her second husband</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in a Brooklyn boarding house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>went with him to Puerto Rico</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bore three more children, lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>her second husband, lived hard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for eight years in <abbr>St.</abbr> Thomas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Puerto Rico, San Domingo, followed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the oldest son to New York,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lost her daughter, lost her “baby,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>seized the two boys of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the oldest son by the second marriage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>mothered them⁠—they being</span>
					<br/>
					<span>motherless⁠—fought for them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the other grandmother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the aunts, brought them here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>summer after summer, defended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>herself here against thieves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>storms, sun, fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against flies, against girls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that came smelling about, against</span>
					<br/>
					<span>drought, against weeds, storm-tides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>neighbors, weasels that stole her chickens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the weakness of her own hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the growing strength of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the boys, against wind, against</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the stones, against trespassers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against rents, against her own mind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She grubbed this earth with her own hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>domineered over this grass plot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>blackguarded her oldest son</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into buying it, lived here fifteen years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>attained a final loneliness and⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If you can bring nothing to this place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but your carcass, keep out.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="k_mcb" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">K. McB.</h2>
				<p>
					<span>You exquisite chunk of mud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kathleen⁠—just like</span>
					<br/>
					<span>any other chunk of mud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—especially in April!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curl up round their shoes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>when they try to step on you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>spoil the polish!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall laugh till I am sick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at their amazement.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do they expect the ground to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>always solid?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give them the slip then;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>let them sit in you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>soil their pants;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>teach them a dignity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that is dignity, the dignity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of mud!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Lie basking in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the sun then⁠—fast asleep!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even become dust on occasion.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="love_song3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">Love Song</h2>
				<p>
					<span>I lie here thinking of you:⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>the stain of love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is upon the world!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yellow, yellow, yellow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it eats into the leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>smears with saffron</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the horned branches that lean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>heavily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against a smooth purple sky!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is no light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>only a honey-thick stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that drips from leaf to leaf</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and limb to limb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>spoiling the colors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the whole world⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>you far off there under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the wine-red selvage of the west!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the_wanderer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Wanderer<br/><em>A Rococo Study</em></h2>
				<section id="the_wanderer-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Advent</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Even in the time when as yet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I had no certain knowledge of her</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She sprang from the nest, a young crow,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whose first flight circled the forest.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I know now how then she showed me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her mind, reaching out to the horizon,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She close above the tree tops.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw her eyes straining at the new distance</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And as the woods fell from her flying</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Likewise they fell from me as I followed⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So that I strongly guessed all that I must put from me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To come through ready for the high courses.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But one day, crossing the ferry</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the great towers of Manhattan before me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out at the prow with the sea wind blowing,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I had been wearying many questions</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which she had put on to try me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How shall I be a mirror to this modernity?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When lo! in a rush, dragging</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A blunt boat on the yielding river⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Suddenly I saw her! And she waved me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the white wet in midst of her playing!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She cried me, “Haia! Here I am, son!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See how strong my little finger is!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Can I not swim well?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I can fly too!” And with that a great sea-gull</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Went to the left, vanishing with a wild cry⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in my mind all the persons of godhead</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Followed after.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the_wanderer-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Clarity</h3>
					<p>
						<span>“Come!” cried my mind and by her might</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That was upon us we flew above the river</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Seeking her, grey gulls among the white⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the air speaking as she had willed it:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I am given,” cried I, “now I know it!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I know now all my time is forespent!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For me one face is all the world!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For I have seen her at last, this day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In whom age in age is united⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Indifferent, out of sequence, marvelously!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Saving alone that one sequence</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which is the beauty of all the world, for surely</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Either there in the rolling smoke spheres below us</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Or here with us in the air intercircling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Certainly somewhere here about us</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I know she is revealing these things!”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And as gulls we flew and with soft cries</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We seemed to speak, flying, “It is she</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The mighty, recreating the whole world,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This the first day of wonders!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She is attiring herself before me⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Taking shape before me for worship,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A red leaf that falls upon a stone!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It is she of whom I told you, old</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Forgiveless, unreconcilable;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That high wanderer of by-ways</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Walking imperious in beggary!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At her throat is loose gold, a single chain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From among many, on her bent fingers</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are rings from which the stones are fallen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her wrists wear a diminished state, her ankles</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Are bare! Toward the river! Is it she there?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And we swerved clamorously downward⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“I will take my peace in her henceforth!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the_wanderer-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Broadway</h3>
					<p>
						<span>It was then she struck⁠—from behind,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In mid air, as with the edge of a great wing!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And instantly down the mists of my eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There came crowds walking⁠—men as visions</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With expressionless, animate faces;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Empty men with shell-thin bodies</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Jostling close above the gutter,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hasting⁠—nowhere! And then for the first time</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I really saw her, really scented the sweat</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of her presence and⁠—fell back sickened!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Ominous, old, painted⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With bright lips, and lewd Jew’s eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her might strapped in by a corset</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To give her age youth, perfect</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In her will to be young she had covered</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The godhead to go beside me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Silent, her voice entered at my eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And my astonished thought followed her easily:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Well, do their eyes shine, do their clothes fit?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>These <em>live</em> I tell you! Old men with red cheeks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Young men in gay suits! See them!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dogged, quivering, impassive⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Well⁠—are these the ones you envied?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At which I answered her, “Marvelous old queen,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grant me power to catch something of this day’s</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Air and sun into your service!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That these toilers after peace and after pleasure</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May turn to you, worshippers at all hours!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But she sniffed upon the words warily⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet I persisted, watching for an answer:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“To you, horrible old woman,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who know all fires out of the bodies</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of all men that walk with lust at heart!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To you, O mighty, crafty prowler</span>
						<br/>
						<span>After the youth of all cities, drunk</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the sight of thy archness! All the youth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That come to you, you having the knowledge</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rather than to those uninitiate⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To you, marvelous old queen, give me always</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A new marriage⁠—”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i8">But she laughed loudly⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“A new grip upon those garments that brushed me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In days gone by on beach, lawn, and in forest!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>May I be lifted still, up and out of terror,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Up from before the death living around me⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tom up continually and carried</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whatever way the head of your whim is,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A burr upon those streaming tatters⁠—”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But the night had fallen, she stilled me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And led me away.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the_wanderer-4" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Paterson⁠—The Strike</h3>
					<p>
						<span>At the first peep of dawn she roused me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I rose trembling at the change which the night saw!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For there, wretchedly brooding in a corner</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From which her old eyes glittered fiercely⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Go!” she said, and I hurried shivering</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out into the deserted streets of Paterson.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>That night she came again, hovering</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In rags within the filmy ceiling⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Great Queen, bless me with thy tatters!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“You are blest, go on!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i10">“Hot for savagery,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sucking the air! I went into the city,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Out again, baffled onto the mountain!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Back into the city!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i8">Nowhere</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The subtle! Everywhere the electric!”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“A short bread-line before a hitherto empty tea shop:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No questions⁠—all stood patiently,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dominated by one idea: something</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That carried them as they are always wanting to be carried,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>‘But what is it,’ I asked those nearest me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>‘This thing heretofore unobtainable</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That they seem so clever to have put on now!’</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Why since I have failed them can it be anything but their own brood?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Can it be anything but brutality?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On that at least they’re united! That at least</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is their bean soup, their calm bread and a few luxuries!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“But in me, more sensitive, marvelous old queen</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It sank deep into the blood, that I rose upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The tense air enjoying the dusty fight!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Heavy drink were the low, sloping foreheads</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The flat skulls with the unkempt black or blond hair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ugly legs of the young girls, pistons</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Too powerful for delicacy!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The women’s wrists, the men’s arms, red</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Used to heat and cold, to toss quartered beeves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And barrels, and milk-cans, and crates of fruit!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Faces all knotted up like burls on oaks,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grasping, fox-snouted, thick-lipped,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sagging breasts and protruding stomachs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Rasping voices, filthy habits with the hands.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Nowhere you! Everywhere the electric!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“Ugly, venemous, gigantic!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tossing me as a great father his helpless</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Infant till it shriek with ecstasy</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And its eyes roll and its tongue hangs out!⁠—</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“I am at peace again, old queen, I listen clearer now.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the_wanderer-5" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Abroad</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Never, even in a dream,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Have I winged so high nor so well</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As with her, she leading me by the hand,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That first day on the Jersey mountains!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And never shall I forget</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The trembling interest with which I heard</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Her voice in a low thunder:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“You are safe here. Look child, look open-mouth!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The patch of road between the steep bramble banks;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The tree in the wind, the white house there, the sky!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Speak to men of these, concerning me!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For never while you permit them to ignore me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In these shall the full of my freed voice</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Come grappling the ear with intent!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Never while the air’s clear coolness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is seized to be a coat for pettiness;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Never while richness of greenery</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stands a shield for prurient minds;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Never, permitting these things unchallenged</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shall my voice of leaves and varicolored bark come free through!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At which, knowing her solitude,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I shouted over the country below me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Waken! my people, to the boughs green</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With ripening fruit within you!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Waken to the myriad cinquefoil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In the waving grass of your minds!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Waken to the silent phoebe nest</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under the eaves of your spirit!”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But she, stooping nearer the shifting hills</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Spoke again. “Look there! See them!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There in the oat field with the horses,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See them there! bowed by their passions</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crushed down, that had been raised as a roof beam!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The weight of the sky is upon them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Under which all roof beams crumble.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is none but the single roof beam:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There is no love bears against the great firefly!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At this I looked up at the sun</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then shouted again with all the might I had.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But my voice was a seed in the wind.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then she, the old one, laughing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Seized me and whirling about bore back</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the city, upward, still laughing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Until the great towers stood above the marshland</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wheeling beneath: the little creeks, the mallows</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That I picked as a boy, the Hackensack</span>
						<br/>
						<span>So quiet that seemed so broad formerly:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The crawling trains, the cedar swamp on the one side⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>All so old, so familiar⁠—so new now</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To my marvelling eyes as we passed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Invisible.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the_wanderer-6" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Soothsay</h3>
					<p>
						<span>Eight days went by, eight days</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Comforted by no nights, until finally:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Would you behold yourself old, beloved?”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I was pierced, yet I consented gladly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For I knew it could not be otherwise.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And she⁠—“Behold yourself old!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sustained in strength, wielding might in gript surges!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Not bodying the sun in weak leaps</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But holding way over rockish men</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With fern free fingers on their little crags,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their hollows, the new Atlas, to bear them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For pride and for mockery! Behold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yourself old! winding with slow might⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A vine among oaks⁠—to the thin tops:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leaving the leafless leaved,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Bearing purple clusters! Behold</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yourself old! birds are behind you.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You are the wind coming that stills birds,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Shakes the leaves in booming polyphony⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Slow, winning high way amid the knocking</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of boughs, evenly crescendo,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The din and bellow of the male wind!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Leap then from forest into foam!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lash about from low into high flames</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tipping sound, the female chorus⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Linking all lions, all twitterings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To make them nothing! Behold yourself old!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As I made to answer she continued,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A little wistfully yet in a voice clear cut:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Good is my overlip and evil</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My underlip to you henceforth:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For I have taken your soul between my two hands</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And this shall be as it is spoken.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the_wanderer-7" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle"><abbr>St.</abbr> James’ Grove</h3>
					<p>
						<span>And so it came to that last day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When, she leading by the hand, we went out</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Early in the morning, I heavy of heart</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For I knew the novitiate was ended</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The ecstasy was over, the life begun.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In my woolen shirt and the pale blue necktie</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My grandmother gave me, there I went</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With the old queen right past the houses</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of my friends down the hill to the river</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As on any usual day, any errand.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alone, walking under trees,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I went with her, she with me in her wild hair,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By Santiago Grove and presently</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She bent forward and knelt by the river,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Passaic, that filthy river.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And there dabbling her mad hands,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She called me close beside her.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Raising the water then in the cupped palm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>She bathed our brows wailing and laughing:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“River, we are old, you and I,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>We are old and by bad luck, beggars.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo, the filth in our hair, our bodies stink!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Old friend, here I have brought you</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The young soul you long asked of me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stand forth, river, and give me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The old friend of my revels!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Give me the well-worn spirit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For here I have made a room for it,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I will return to you forthwith</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The youth you have long asked of me:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stand forth, river, and give me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The old friend of my revels!”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>And the filthy Passaic consented!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Then she, leaping up with a fierce cry:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Enter, youth, into this bulk!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Enter, river, into this young man!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Then the river began to enter my heart,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Eddying back cool and limpid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Into the crystal beginning of its days.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But with the rebound it leaped forward:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Muddy, then black and shrunken</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Till I felt the utter depth of its rottenness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The vile breadth of its degradation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And dropped down knowing this was me now.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But she lifted me and the water took a new tide</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Again into the older experiences,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And so, backward and forward,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It tortured itself within me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Until time had been washed finally under,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the river had found its level</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And its last motion had ceased</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I knew all⁠—it became me.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And I knew this for double certain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For there, whitely, I saw myself</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Being borne off under the water!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I could have shouted out in my agony</span>
						<br/>
						<span>At the sight of myself departing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Forever⁠—but I bit back my despair</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For she had averted her eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By which I knew well what she was thinking⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And so the last of me was taken.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Then she, “Be mostly silent!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And turning to the river, spoke again:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“For him and for me, river, the wandering,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But by you I leave for happiness</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Deep foliage, the thickest beeches⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Though elsewhere they are all dying⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tallest oaks and yellow birches</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That dip their leaves in you, mourning,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As now I dip my hair, immemorial</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of me, immemorial of him</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Immemorial of these our promises!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here shall be a bird’s paradise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They sing to you remembering my voice:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Here the most secluded spaces</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For miles around, hallowed by a stench</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To be our joint solitude and temple;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In memory of this clear marriage</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the child I have brought you in the late years.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Live, river, live in luxuriance</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Remembering this our son,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In remembrance of me and my sorrow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And of the new wandering!”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
