<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Sour Grapes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="sour-grapes" epub:type="z3998:volume">
		<h2 epub:type="title">Sour Grapes</h2>
			<article id="the-late-singer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Late Singer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here it is spring again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and I still a young man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am late at my singing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sparrow with the black rain on his breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>has been at his cadenzas for two weeks past:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is it that is dragging at my heart?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grass by the back door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is stiff with sap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old maples are opening</span>
					<br/>
					<span>their branches of brown and yellow moth-flowers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A moon hangs in the blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the early afternoons over the marshes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am late at my singing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="march" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">March</h3>
				<section id="march-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h4 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Winter is long in this climate</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and spring⁠—a matter of a few days</span>
						<br/>
						<span>only⁠—a flower or two picked</span>
						<br/>
						<span>from mud or from among wet leaves</span>
						<br/>
						<span>or at best against treacherous</span>
						<br/>
						<span>bitterness of wind, and sky shining</span>
						<br/>
						<span>teasingly, then closing in black</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and sudden, with fierce jaws.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="march-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h4 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<p>
						<span>March,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">you remind me of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the pyramids, our pyramids⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>stript of the polished stone</span>
						<br/>
						<span>that used to guard them!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i9">March,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>you are like Fra Angelico</span>
						<br/>
						<span>at Fiesole, painting on plaster!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>March,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">you are like a band of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>young poets that have not learned</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the blessedness of warmth</span>
						<br/>
						<span>(or have forgotten it).</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>At any rate⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I am moved to write poetry</span>
						<br/>
						<span>for the warmth there is in it</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and for the loneliness⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a poem that shall have you</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">in it March.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="march-3" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h4 epub:type="title z3998:roman">III</h4>
					<p>
						<span>See!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Ashur-ban-i-pal,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the archer king, on horse-back,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in blue and yellow enamel!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>with drawn bow⁠—facing lions</span>
						<br/>
						<span>standing on their hind legs,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>fangs bared! his shafts</span>
						<br/>
						<span>bristling in their necks!</span>
						<br/>
						<span/>
						<br/>
						<span>Sacred bulls⁠—dragons</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in embossed brickwork</span>
						<br/>
						<span>marching⁠—in four tiers⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>along the sacred way to</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nebuchadnezzar’s throne hall!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>They shine in the sun,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>they that have been marching⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>marching under the dust of</span>
						<br/>
						<span>ten thousand dirt years.</span>
						<br/>
						<span/>
						<br/>
						<span>Now⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>they are coming into bloom again!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>See them!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>marching still, bared by</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the storms from my calendar</span>
						<br/>
						<span>—winds that blow back the sand!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>winds that enfilade dirt!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>winds that by strange craft</span>
						<br/>
						<span>have whipt up a black army</span>
						<br/>
						<span>that by pick and shovel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>bare a procession to</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i8">the god, Marduk!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Natives cursing and digging</span>
						<br/>
						<span>for pay unearth dragons with</span>
						<br/>
						<span>upright tails and sacred bulls</span>
						<br/>
						<span>alternately⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i7">in four tiers⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>lining the way to an old altar!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Natives digging at old walls⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>digging me warmth⁠—digging me</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">sweet loneliness⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>high enamelled walls.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="march-4" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h4 epub:type="title z3998:roman">IV</h4>
					<p>
						<span>My second spring⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>passed in a monastery</span>
						<br/>
						<span>with plaster walls⁠—in Fiesole</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on the hill above Florence.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>My second spring⁠—painted</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a virgin⁠—in a blue aureole</span>
						<br/>
						<span>sitting on a three-legged stool,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>arms crossed⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>she is intently serious,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i8">and still</span>
						<br/>
						<span>watching an angel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>with colored wings</span>
						<br/>
						<span>half kneeling before her⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>and smiling⁠—the angel’s eyes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>holding the eyes of Mary</span>
						<br/>
						<span>as a snake’s holds a bird’s.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>On the ground there are flowers,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>trees are in leaf.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="march-5" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h4 epub:type="title z3998:roman">V</h4>
					<p>
						<span> But! now for the battle!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Now for murder⁠—now for the real thing!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>My third springtime is approaching!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Winds!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>lean, serious as a virgin,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>seeking, seeking the flowers of March.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Seeking</span>
						<br/>
						<span>flowers nowhere to be found,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>they twine among the bare branches</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in insatiable eagerness⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>they whirl up the snow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>seeking under it⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>they⁠—the winds⁠—snakelike</span>
						<br/>
						<span>roar among yellow reeds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>seeking flowers⁠—flowers.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I spring among them</span>
						<br/>
						<span>seeking one flower</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in which to warm myself!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I deride with all the ridicule</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of misery⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>my own starved misery.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Counter-cutting winds</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">strike against me</span>
						<br/>
						<span>refreshing their fury!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Come, good, cold fellows!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">Have we no flowers?</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Defy then with even more</span>
						<br/>
						<span>desperation than ever⁠—being</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i3">lean and frozen!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But though you are lean and frozen⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>think of the blue bulls of Babylon.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Fling yourselves upon</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">their empty roses⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i7">cut savagely!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>think of the painted monastery</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i4">at Fiesole.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="berket-and-the-stars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Berket and the Stars</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A day on the boulevards chosen out of ten years of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>student poverty! One best day out of ten good ones.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Berket in high spirits⁠—“Ha, oranges! Let’s have one!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he made to snatch an orange from the vender’s cart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now so clever was the deception, so nicely timed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the full sweep of certain wave summits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that the rumor of the thing has come down through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>three generations⁠—which is relatively forever!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-celebration" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Celebration</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A middle-northern March, now as always⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>gusts from the south broken against cold winds⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but from under, as if a slow hand lifted a tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it moves⁠—not into April⁠—into a second March,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the old skin of wind-clear scales dropping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upon the mould: this is the shadow projects the tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upward causing the sun to shine in his sphere.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So we will put on our pink felt hat⁠—new last year!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—newer this by virtue of brown eyes turning back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the seasons⁠—and let us walk to the orchid-house,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>see the flowers will take the prize to-morrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the Palace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Stop here, these are our oleanders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they are in bloom⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">You would waste words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is clearer to me than if the pink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>were on the branch. It would be a searching in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a colored cloud to reveal that which now, huskless,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shows the very reason for their being.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And these the orange-trees, in blossom⁠—no need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to tell with this weight of perfume in the air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If it were not so dark in this shed one could better</span>
					<br/>
					<span>see the white.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">It is that very perfume</span>
					<br/>
					<span>has drawn the darkness down among the leaves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do I speak clearly enough?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is this darkness reveals that which darkness alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>loosens and sets spinning on waxen wings⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>not the touch of a finger-tip, not the motion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of a sigh. A too heavy sweetness proves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>its own caretaker.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here are the orchids!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i10">Never having seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>such gaiety I will read these flowers for you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is an odd January, died⁠—in Villon’s time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Snow, this is and this the stain of a violet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>grew in that place the spring that foresaw its own doom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And this, a certain July from Iceland:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a young woman of that place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>breathed it toward the south. It took root there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The color ran true but the plant is small.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This falling spray of snowflakes is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a handful of dead Februarys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>prayed into flower by Rafael Arevalo Martinez</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of Guatemala.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Here’s that old friend who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>went by my side so many years: this full, fragile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>head of veined lavender. Oh that April</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that we first went with our stiff lusts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>leaving the city behind, out to the green hill⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May, they said she was. A hand for all of us:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>this branch of blue butterflies tied to this stem.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>June is a yellow cup I’ll not name; August</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the over-heavy one. And here are⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>russet and shiny, all but March. And March?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, March⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Flowers are a tiresome pastime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One has a wish to shake them from their pots</span>
					<br/>
					<span>root and stem, for the sun to gnaw.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Walk out again into the cold and saunter home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the fire. This day has blossomed long enough.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have wiped out the red night and lit a blaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>instead which will at least warm our hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and stir up the talk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">I think we have kept fair time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time is a green orchid.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="april" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">April</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If you had come away with me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into another state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>we had been quiet together.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there the sun coming up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>out of the nothing beyond the lake was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>too low in the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>there was too great a pushing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>too much of sumac buds, pink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with the clear gum upon them,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>too many opening hearts of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lilac leaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>too many, too many swollen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>limp poplar tassels on the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bare branches!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was too strong in the air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I had no rest against that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>springtime!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pounding of the hoofs on the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>raw sods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stayed with me half through the night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I awoke smiling but tired.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-goodnight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Goodnight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Go to sleep⁠—though of course you will not⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to tideless waves thundering slantwise against</span>
					<br/>
					<span>strong embankments, rattle and swish of spray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dashed thirty feet high, caught by the lake wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>scattered and strewn broadcast in over the steady</span>
					<br/>
					<span>car rails! Sleep, sleep! Gulls’ cries in a wind-gust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>broken by the wind; calculating wings set above</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the field of waves breaking.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go to sleep to the lunge between foam-crests,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>refuse churned in the recoil. Food! Food!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Offal! Offal! that holds them in the air, wave-white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for the one purpose, feather upon feather, the wild</span>
					<br/>
					<span>chill in their eyes, the hoarseness in their voices⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sleep, sleep …</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gentlefooted crowds are treading out your lullaby.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their arms nudge, they brush shoulders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hitch this way then that, mass and surge at the crossings⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lullaby, lullaby! The wild-fowl police whistles,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the enraged roar of the traffic, machine shrieks:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it is all to put you to sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to soften your limbs in relaxed postures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and that your head slip sidewise, and your hair loosen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and fall over your eyes and over your mouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>brushing your lips wistfully that you may dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sleep and dream⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A black fungus springs out about lonely church doors⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sleep, sleep. The Night, coming down upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the wet boulevard, would start you awake with his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>message, to have in at your window. Pay no</span>
					<br/>
					<span>heed to him. He storms at your sill with</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cooings, with gesticulations, curses!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will not let him in. He would keep you from sleeping.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would have you sit under your desk lamp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>brooding, pondering; he would have you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>slide out the drawer, take up the ornamented dagger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and handle it. It is late, it is nineteen-nineteen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>go to sleep, his cries are a lullaby;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his jabbering is a sleep-well-my-baby; he is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a crackbrained messenger.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The maid waking you in the morning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>when you are up and dressing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the rustle of your clothes as you raise them⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it is the same tune.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At table the cold, greenish, split grapefruit, its juice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on the tongue, the clink of the spoon in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>your coffee, the toast odors say it over and over.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The open street-door lets in the breath of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the morning wind from over the lake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bus coming to a halt grinds from its sullen brakes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lullaby, lullaby. The crackle of a newspaper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the movement of the troubled coat beside you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sleep, sleep, sleep, sleep …</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the sting of snow, the burning liquor of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the moonlight, the rush of rain in the gutters packed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with dead leaves: go to sleep, go to sleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the night passes⁠—and never passes⁠—</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="overture-to-a-dance-of-locomotives" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Overture to a Dance of Locomotives</h3>
				<section id="overture-to-a-dance-of-locomotives-1" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h4 epub:type="title z3998:roman">I</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Men with picked voices chant the names</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of cities in a huge gallery: promises</span>
						<br/>
						<span>that pull through descending stairways</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to a deep rumbling.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i7">The rubbing feet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of those coming to be carried quicken a</span>
						<br/>
						<span>grey pavement into soft light that rocks</span>
						<br/>
						<span>to and fro, under the domed ceiling,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>across and across from pale</span>
						<br/>
						<span>earthcolored walls of bare limestone.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Covertly the hands of a great clock</span>
						<br/>
						<span>go round and round! Were they to</span>
						<br/>
						<span>move quickly and at once the whole</span>
						<br/>
						<span>secret would be out and the shuffling</span>
						<br/>
						<span>of all ants be done forever.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A leaning pyramid of sunlight, narrowing</span>
						<br/>
						<span>out at a high window, moves by the clock:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>disaccordant hands straining out from</span>
						<br/>
						<span>a center: inevitable postures infinitely</span>
						<br/>
						<span>repeated⁠—</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="overture-to-a-dance-of-locomotives-2" epub:type="subchapter">
					<h4 epub:type="title z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Two⁠—twofour⁠—twoeight!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Porters in red hats run on narrow platforms.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>This way ma’m!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">—important not to take</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the wrong train!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i6">Lights from the concrete</span>
						<br/>
						<span>ceiling hang crooked but⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i11">Poised horizontal</span>
						<br/>
						<span>on glittering parallels the dingy cylinders</span>
						<br/>
						<span>packed with a warm glow⁠—inviting entry⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>pull against the hour. But brakes can</span>
						<br/>
						<span>hold a fixed posture till⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i10">The whistle!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Not twoeight. Not twofour. Two!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Gliding windows. Colored cooks sweating</span>
						<br/>
						<span>in a small kitchen. Taillights⁠—</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>In time: twofour!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In time: twoeight!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>—rivers are tunneled: trestles</span>
						<br/>
						<span>cross oozy swampland: wheels repeating</span>
						<br/>
						<span>the same gesture remain relatively</span>
						<br/>
						<span>stationary: rails forever parallel</span>
						<br/>
						<span>return on themselves infinitely.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i11">The dance is sure.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="romance-moderne" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Romance Moderne</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Tracks of rain and light linger in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the spongy greens of a nature whose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>flickering mountain⁠—bulging nearer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ebbing back into the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hollowing itself away to hold a lake⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or brown stream rising and falling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the roadside, turning about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>churning itself white, drawing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>green in over it⁠—plunging glassy funnels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fall⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And⁠—the other world⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the windshield a blunt barrier:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Talk to me. Sh! they would hear us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—the backs of their heads facing us⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stream continues its motion of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a hound running over rough ground.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Trees vanish⁠—reappear⁠—vanish:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>detached dance of gnomes⁠—as a talk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dodging remarks, glows and fades.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—The unseen power of words⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now that a few of the moves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are clear the first desire is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to fling oneself out at the side into</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the other dance, to other music.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peer Gynt. Rip Van Winkle. Diana.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If I were young I would try a new alignment⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>alight nimbly from the car, Good-bye!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Childhood companions linked two and two</span>
					<br/>
					<span>criss-cross: four, three, two, one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back into self, tentacles withdrawn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Feel about in warm self-flesh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since childhood, since childhood!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Childhood is a toad in the garden, a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>happy toad. All toads are happy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and belong in gardens. A toad to Diana!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lean forward. Punch the steersman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>behind the ear. Twirl the wheel!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the edge! Screams! Crash!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The end. I sit above my head⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a little removed⁠—or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a thin wash of rain on the roadway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—I am never afraid when he is driving⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>interposes new direction,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rides us sidewise, unforseen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into the ditch! All threads cut!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death! Black. The end. The very end⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I would sit separate weighing a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>small red handful: the dirt of these parts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sliding mists sheeting the alders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the touch of fingers creeping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to mine. All stuff of the blind emotions.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But⁠—stirred, the eye seizes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for the first time⁠—The eye awake!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>anything, a dirt bank with green stars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of scrawny weed flattened upon it under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a weight of air⁠—For the first time!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or a yawning depth: Big!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swim around in it, through it⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>all directions and find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>vitreous seawater stuff⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God how I love you!⁠—or, as I say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a plunge into the ditch. The end. I sit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>examining my red handful. Balancing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—this⁠—in and out⁠—agh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Love you? It’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a fire in the blood, willy-nilly!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s the sun coming up in the morning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ha, but it’s the grey moon too, already up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the morning. You are slow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men are not friends where it concerns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a woman? Fighters. Playfellows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White round thighs! Youth! Sighs⁠—!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s the fillip of novelty. It’s⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mountains. Elephants humping along</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against the sky⁠—indifferent to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>light withdrawing its tattered shreds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>worn out with embraces. It’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the fillip of novelty. It’s a fire in the blood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Oh get a flannel shirt, white flannel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or pongee. You’d look so well!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I married you because I liked your nose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wanted you! I wanted you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in spite of all they’d say⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rain and light, mountain and rain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rain and river. Will you love me always?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—A car overturned and two crushed bodies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>under it.⁠—Always! Always!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the white moon already up.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White. Clean. All the colors.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A good head, backed by the eye⁠—awake!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>backed by the emotions⁠—blind⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>River and mountain, light and rain⁠—or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rain, rock, light, trees⁠—divided:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rain-light counter rocks-trees or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>trees counter rain-light-rocks or⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Myriads of counter processions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>crossing and recrossing, regaining</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the advantage, buying here, selling there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—You are sold cheap everywhere in town!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lingering, touching fingers, withdrawing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>gathering forces into blares, hummocks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>peaks and rivers⁠—river meeting rock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—I wish that you were lying there dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and I sitting here beside you.⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s the grey moon⁠—over and over.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s the clay of these parts.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-desolate-field" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Desolate Field</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Vast and grey, the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is a simulacrum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to all but him whose days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are vast and grey, and⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the tall, dried grasses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a goat stirs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with nozzle searching the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—my head is in the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but who am I … ?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And amazed my heart leaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the thought of love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>vast and grey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>yearning silently over me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="willow-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Willow Poem</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is a willow when summer is over,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a willow by the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from which no leaf has fallen nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bitten by the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>turned orange or crimson.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The leaves cling and grow paler,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>swing and grow paler</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over the swirling waters of the river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as if loath to let go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they are so cool, so drunk with</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the swirl of the wind and of the river⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>oblivious to winter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the last to let go and fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into the water and on the ground.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="approach-of-winter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Approach of Winter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The half stripped trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>struck by a wind together,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bending all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the leaves flutter drily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and refuse to let go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or driven like hail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stream bitterly out to one side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where the salvias, hard carmine,⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like no leaf that ever was⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>edge the bare garden.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="january" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">January</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Again I reply to the triple winds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>running chromatic fifths of derision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>outside my window:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Play louder.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will not succeed. I am</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bound more to my sentences</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the more you batter at me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to follow you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">And the wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as before, fingers perfectly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>its derisive music.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="blizzard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Blizzard</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Snow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>years of anger following</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hours that float idly down⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the blizzard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>drifts its weight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>deeper and deeper for three days</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or sixty years, eh? Then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the sun! a clutter of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>yellow and blue flakes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hairy looking trees stand out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in long alleys</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over a wild solitude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man turns and there⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his solitary track stretched out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upon the world.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-waken-an-old-lady" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Waken an Old Lady</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Old age is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a flight of small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cheeping birds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>skimming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>bare trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>above a snow glaze.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gaining and failing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they are buffetted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>by a dark wind⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On harsh weedstalks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the flock has rested,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is covered with broken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>seedhusks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the wind tempered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>by a shrill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>piping of plenty.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="winter-trees" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Winter Trees</h3>
				<p>
					<span>All the complicated details</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the attiring and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the disattiring are completed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A liquid moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>moves gently among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the long branches.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus having prepared their buds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>against a sure winter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the wise trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stand sleeping in the cold.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="complaint" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Complaint</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They call me and I go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a frozen road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>past midnight, a dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of snow caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the rigid wheeltracks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The door opens.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I smile, enter and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shake off the cold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here is a great woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on her side in the bed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She is sick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>perhaps vomiting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>perhaps laboring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to give birth to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a tenth child. Joy! Joy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night is a room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>darkened for lovers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>through the jalousies the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>has sent one gold needle!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pick the hair from her eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and watch her misery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with compassion.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cold-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Cold Night</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is cold. The white moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is up among her scattered stars⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like the bare thighs of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the Police Sergeant’s wife⁠—among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>her five children …</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No answer. Pale shadows lie upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the frosted grass. One answer:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is midnight, it is still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and it is cold … !</span>
					<br/>
					<span>White thighs of the sky! a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>new answer out of the depths of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my male belly: In April …</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In April I shall see again⁠—In April!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the round and perfect thighs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the Police Sergeant’s wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>perfect still after many babies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oya!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spring-storm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Spring Storm</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The sky has given over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>its bitterness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the dark change</span>
					<br/>
					<span>all day long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rain falls and falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as if it would never end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still the snow keeps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>its hold on the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But water, water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from a thousand runnels!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It collects swiftly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dappled with black</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cuts a way for itself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>through green ice in the gutters.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drop after drop it falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from the withered grass-stems</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the overhanging embankment.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-delicacies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Delicacies</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The hostess, in pink satin and blond hair⁠—dressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>high⁠—shone beautifully in her white slippers against</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the great silent bald head of her little-eyed husband!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Raising a glass of yellow Rhine wine in the narrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>space just beyond the light-varnished woodwork and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the decorative column between dining-room and hall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>she smiled the smile of water tumbling from one ledge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to another.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We began with a herring salad: delicately flavoured</span>
					<br/>
					<span>saltiness in scallops of lettuce-leaves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The little owl-eyed and thick-set lady with masses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of grey hair has smooth pink cheeks without a wrinkle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She cannot be the daughter of the little red-faced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fellow dancing about inviting lion-headed Wolff the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>druggist to play the piano! But she is. Wolff is a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>terrific smoker: if the telephone goes off at night⁠—so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his curled-haired wife whispers⁠—he rises from bed but</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cannot answer till he has lighted a cigarette.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Sherry wine in little conical glasses, dull brownish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>yellow, and tomatoes stuffed with finely cut chicken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and mayonnaise!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The tall Irishman in a Prince Albert and the usual</span>
					<br/>
					<span>striped trousers is going to sing for us. (The piano</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is in a little alcove with dark curtains.) The hostess’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sister⁠—ten years younger than she⁠—in black net and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>velvet, has hair like some filmy haystack, cloudy about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the eyes. She will play for her husband.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">My wife is young, yes she is young and pretty when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>she cares to be⁠—when she is interested in a discussion:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it is the little dancing mayor’s wife telling her of the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Day nursery in East Rutherford, ’cross the track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>divided from us by the railroad⁠—and disputes as to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>precedence. It is in this town the saloon flourishes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the saloon of my friend on the right whose wife has</span>
					<br/>
					<span>twice offended with chance words. Her English is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>atrocious! It is in this town that the saloon is situated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>close to the railroad track, close as may be, this side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>being dry, dry, dry: two people listening on opposite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>sides of a wall!⁠—The Day Nursery had sixty-five</span>
					<br/>
					<span>babies the week before last, so my wife’s eyes shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and her cheeks are pink and I cannot see a blemish.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Ice-cream in the shape of flowers and domestic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>objects: a pipe for me since I do not smoke, a doll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The figure of some great bulk of a woman disappearing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into the kitchen with a quick look over the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shoulder. My friend on the left who has spent the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>whole day in a car the like of which some old fellow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>would give to an actress: flower-holders, mirrors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>curtains, plush seats⁠—my friend on the left who is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>chairman of the Streets committee of the town council⁠</span>
					<br/>
					<span>—and who has spent the whole day studying automobile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fire-engines in neighbouring towns in view of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>purchase⁠—my friend, at the Elks last week at the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>breaking-up hymn, signalled for them to let Bill⁠—a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>familiar friend of the saloon-keeper⁠—sing out all alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the organ⁠—and he did sing!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Salz-rolls, exquisite! and Rhine wine <i xml:lang="la">ad libitum</i>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A masterly caviare sandwich.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The children flitting about above stairs. The</span>
					<br/>
					<span>councilman has just bought a National eight⁠—some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>car!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">For heaven’s sake I mustn’t forget the halves of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>green peppers stuffed with cream cheese and whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>walnuts!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thursday" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thursday</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I have had my dream⁠—like others⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and it has come to nothing, so that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I remain now carelessly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with feet planted on the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and look up at the sky⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>feeling my clothes about me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the weight of my body in my shoes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the rim of my hat, air passing in and out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at my nose⁠—and decide to dream no more.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-dark-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Dark Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A three-day-long rain from the east⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>an interminable talking, talking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of no consequence⁠—patter, patter, patter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hand in hand little winds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>blow the thin streams aslant.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warm. Distance cut off. Seclusion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A few passers-by, drawn in upon themselves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hurry from one place to another.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Winds of the white poppy! there is no escape!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An interminable talking, talking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>talking … it has happened before.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Backward, backward, backward.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="time-the-hangman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Time the Hangman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Poor old Abner, old white-haired nigger!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I remember when you were so strong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you hung yourself by a rope round the neck</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in Doc Hollister’s barn to prove you could beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the faker in the circus⁠—and it didn’t kill you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now your face is in your hands, and your elbows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are on your knees, and you are silent and broken.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-friend" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Friend</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, Lizzie Anderson! seventeen men⁠—and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the baby hard to find a father for!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What will the good Father in Heaven say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to the local judge if he do not solve this problem?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little two pointed smile and⁠—pouff!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the law is changed into a mouthful of phrases.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-gentle-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Gentle Man</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I feel the caress of my own fingers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on my own neck as I place my collar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and think pityingly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the kind women I have known.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-soughing-wind" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Soughing Wind</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Some leaves hang late, some fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>before the first frost⁠—so goes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the tale of winter branches and old bones.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Spring</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O my grey hairs!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are truly white as plum blossoms.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="play" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Play</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Subtle, clever brain, wiser than I am,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>by what devious means do you contrive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to remain idle? Teach me, O master.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lines</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Leaves are greygreen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the glass broken, bright green.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-poor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Poor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>By constantly tormenting them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with reminders of the lice in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>their children’s hair, the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>School Physician first</span>
					<br/>
					<span>brought their hatred down on him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But by this familiarity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they grew used to him, and so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>took him for their friend and adviser.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="complete-destruction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Complete Destruction</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was an icy day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We buried the cat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>then took her box</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and set fire to it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the back yard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those fleas that escaped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>earth and fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>died by the cold.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="memory-of-april" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Memory of April</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You say love is this, love is that:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poplar tassels, willow tendrils</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the wind and the rain comb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>tinkle and drip, tinkle and drip⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>branches drifting apart. Hagh!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love has not even visited this country.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epitaph" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Epitaph</h3>
				<p>
					<span>An old willow with hollow branches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>slowly swayed his few high bright tendrils</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and sang:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Love is a young green willow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shimmering at the bare wood’s edge.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="daisy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Daisy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The dayseye hugging the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in August, ha! Spring is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>gone down in purple,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>weeds stand high in the corn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the rainbeaten furrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is clotted with sorrel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and crabgrass, the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>branch is black under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the heavy mass of the leaves⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun is upon a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>slender green stem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ribbed lengthwise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lies on his back⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>it is a woman also⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>he regards his former</span>
					<br/>
					<span>majesty and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>round the yellow center,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>split and creviced and done into</span>
					<br/>
					<span>minute flowerheads, he sends out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his twenty rays⁠—a little</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the wind is among them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to grow cool there!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One turns the thing over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in his hand and looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at it from the rear: brownedged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>green and pointed scales</span>
					<br/>
					<span>armor his yellow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But turn and turn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the crisp petals remain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>brief, translucent, greenfastened,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>barely touching at the edges:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>blades of limpid seashell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="primrose" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Primrose</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is not a color.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is summer!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the wind on a willow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the lap of waves, the shadow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>under a bush, a bird, a bluebird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>three herons, a dead hawk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rotting on a pole⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clear yellow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a piece of blue paper</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the grass or a threecluster of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>green walnuts swaying, children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>playing croquet or one boy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fishing, a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>swinging his pink fists</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as he walks⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is ladysthumb, forgetmenots</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the ditch, moss under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the flange of the carrail, the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>wavy lines in split rock, a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>great oaktree⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a disinclination to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>five red petals or a rose, it is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a cluster of birdsbreast flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on a red stem six feet high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>four open yellow petals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>above sepals curled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>backward into reverse spikes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tufts of purple grass spot the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>green meadow and clouds the sky.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="queen-ann’s-lace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Queen-Ann’s-Lace</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Her body is not so white as</span>
					<br/>
					<span>anemony petals nor so smooth⁠—nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>so remote a thing. It is a field</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the wild carrot taking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the field by force; the grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>does not raise above it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here is no question of whiteness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>white as can be, with a purple mole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the center of each flower.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each flower is a hand’s span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of her whiteness. Wherever</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his hand has lain there is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a tiny purple blemish. Each part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is a blossom under his touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to which the fibres of her being</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stem one by one, each to its end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>until the whole field is a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>white desire, empty, a single stem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a cluster, flower by flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a pious wish to whiteness gone over⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or nothing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="great-mullen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Great Mullen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One leaves his leaves at home</span>
					<br/>
					<span>being a mullen and sends up a lighthouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to peer from: I will have my way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>yellow⁠—A mast with a lantern, ten</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fifty, a hundred, smaller and smaller</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as they grow more⁠—Liar, liar, liar!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You come from her! I can smell djer-kiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on your clothes. Ha, ha! you come to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you⁠—I am a point of dew on a grass-stem.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why are you sending heat down on me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from your lantern?⁠—You are cowdung, a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dead stick with the bark off. She is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>squirting on us both. She has had her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hand on you!⁠—Well?⁠—She has defiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ME.⁠—Your leaves are dull, thick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and hairy.⁠—Every hair on my body will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hold you off from me. You are a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dungcake, birdlime on a fencerail.⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love you, straight, yellow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>finger of God pointing to⁠—her!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Liar, broken weed, duncake, you have⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am a cricket waving his antenae</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and you are high, grey and straight. Ha!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="waiting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Waiting</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When I am alone I am happy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air is cool. The sky is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>flecked and splashed and wound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with color. The crimson phalloi</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the sassafrass leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hang crowded before me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in shoals on the heavy branches.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I reach my doorstep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am greeted by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the happy shrieks of my children</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and my heart sinks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am crushed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are not my children as dear to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as falling leaves or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>must one become stupid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to grow older?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seems much as if Sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>had tripped up my heels.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let us see, let us see!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What did I plan to say to her</span>
					<br/>
					<span>when it should happen to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as it has happened now?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-hunter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Hunter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In the flashes and black shadows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of July</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the days, locked in each other’s arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>seem still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>so that squirrels and colored birds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>go about at ease over</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the branches and through the air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where will a shoulder split or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a forehead open and victory be?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nowhere.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both sides grow older.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And you may be sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>not one leaf will lift itself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and become fast to a twig again.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arrival" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Arrival</h3>
				<p>
					<span>And yet one arrives somehow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>finds himself loosening the hooks of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>her dress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in a strange bedroom⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>feels the autumn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dropping its silk and linen leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>about her ankles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tawdry veined body emerges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>twisted upon itself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like a winter wind … !</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-friend-concerning-several-ladies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Friend Concerning Several Ladies</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You know there is not much</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that I desire, a few crysanthemums</span>
					<br/>
					<span>half lying on the grass, yellow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and brown and white, the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>talk of a few people, the trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>an expanse of dried leaves perhaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with ditches among them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there comes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>between me and these things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a letter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>or even a look⁠—well placed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>you understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>so that I am confused, twisted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>four ways and⁠—left flat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>unable to lift the food to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my own mouth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here is what they say: Come!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and come! and come! And if</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do not go I remain stale to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>myself and if I go⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">I have watched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the city from a distance at night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and wondered why I wrote no poem.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come! yes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the city is ablaze for you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and you stand and look at it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And they are right. There is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>no good in the world except out of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a woman and certain women alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for certain things. But what if</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I arrive like a turtle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with my house on my back or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a fish ogling from under water?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It will not do. I must be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>steaming with love, colored</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like a flamingo. For what?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have legs and a silly head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and to smell, pah! like a flamingo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that soils its own feathers behind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must I go home filled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with a bad poem?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who can answer these things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>till he has tried? Your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are half closed, you are a child,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>oh, a sweet one, ready to play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but I will make a man of you and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with love on his shoulder⁠—!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And in the marshes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the crickets run</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on the sunny dike’s top and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>make burrows there, the water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>reflects the reeds and the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>move on their stalks and rattle drily.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="youth-and-beauty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Youth and Beauty</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I bought a dishmop⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>having no daughter⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for they had twisted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>fine ribbons of shining copper</span>
					<br/>
					<span>about white twine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and made a towsled head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of it, fastened it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upon a turned ash stick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>slender at the neck</span>
					<br/>
					<span>straight, tall⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>when tied upright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on the brass wallbracket</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to be a light for me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and naked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as a girl should seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to her father.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-thinker" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Thinker</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My wife’s new pink slippers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>have gay pom-poms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is not a spot or a stain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on their satin toes or their sides.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All night they lie together</span>
					<br/>
					<span>under her bed’s edge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shivering I catch sight of them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and smile, in the morning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Later I watch them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>descending the stair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hurrying through the doors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and round the table,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>moving stiffly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with a shake of their gay pom-poms!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I talk to them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in my secret mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>out of pure happiness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-disputants" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Disputants</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the table in their bowl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in violent disarray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of yellow sprays, green spikes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of leaves, red pointed petals</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and curled heads of blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and white among the litter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the forks and crumbs and plates</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the flowers remain composed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cooly their colloquy continues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>above the coffee and loud talk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>grown frail as vaudeville.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tulip-bed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tulip Bed</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The May sun⁠—whom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>all things imitate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that glues small leaves to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the wooden trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>shone from the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>through bluegauze clouds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upon the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the leafy trees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where the suburban streets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lay crossed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with houses on each corner,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>tangled shadows had begun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to join</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the roadway and the lawns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With excellent precision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the tulip bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>inside the iron fence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upreared its gaudy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>yellow, white and red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>rimmed round with grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>reposedly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-birds" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Birds</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The world begins again!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not wholly insufflated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the blackbirds in the rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upon the dead topbranches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the living tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stuck fast to the low clouds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>notate the dawn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their shrill cries sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>announcing appetite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and drop among the bending roses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the dripping grass.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-nightingales" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Nightingales</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My shoes as I lean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>unlacing them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>stand out upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>flat worsted flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>under my feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nimbly the shadows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of my fingers play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>unlacing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>over shoes and flowers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="spouts" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Spouts</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In this world of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as fine a pair of breasts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as ever I saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the fountain in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madison Square</span>
					<br/>
					<span>spouts up of water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>a white tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that dies and lives</span>
					<br/>
					<span>as the rocking water</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the basin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>turns from the stonerim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>back upon the jet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and rising there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>reflectively drops down again.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="blueflags" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Blueflags</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I stopped the car</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to let the children down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where the streets end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the marsh edge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the reeds begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and there are small houses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>facing the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and the blue mist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the distance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with grapevine trellises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with grape clusters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>small as strawberries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on the vines</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and ditches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>running springwater</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that continue the gutters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with willows over them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reeds begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like water at a shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>their pointed petals waving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>dark green and light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But blueflags are blossoming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>which the children pluck</span>
					<br/>
					<span>chattering in the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>high over their heads</span>
					<br/>
					<span>which they part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with bare arms to appear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with fists of flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>till in the air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>there comes the smell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of calamus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from wet, gummy stalks.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-widows-lament-in-springtime" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Widow’s Lament in Springtime</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sorrow is my own yard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where the new grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>flames as it has flamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>often before but not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with the cold fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that closes round me this year.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thirtyfive years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I lived with my husband.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plumtree is white today</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with masses of flowers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Masses of flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>load the cherry branches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and color some bushes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>yellow and some red</span>
					<br/>
					<span>but the grief in my heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is stronger than they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>for though they were my joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>formerly, today I notice them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and turn away forgetting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Today my son told me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that in the meadows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>at the edge of the heavy woods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in the distance, he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>trees of white flowers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I feel that I would like</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to go there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and fall into those flowers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and sink into the marsh near them.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="light-hearted-william" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Light Hearted William</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Light hearted William twirled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his November moustaches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and, half dressed, looked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>from the bedroom window</span>
					<br/>
					<span>upon the spring weather.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Heigh-ya! sighed he gaily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>leaning out to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>up and down the street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>where a heavy sunlight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>lay beyond some blue shadows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Into the room he drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>his head again and laughed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to himself quietly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>twirling his green moustaches.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="portrait-of-the-author" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Portrait of the Author</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The birches are mad with green points</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the wood’s edge is burning with their green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>burning, seething⁠—No, no, no.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The birches are opening their leaves one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>by one. Their delicate leaves unfold cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and separate, one by one. Slender tassels</span>
					<br/>
					<span>hang swaying from the delicate branch tips⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Oh, I cannot say it. There is no word.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Black is split at once into flowers. In</span>
					<br/>
					<span>every bog and ditch, flares of</span>
					<br/>
					<span>small fire, white flowers!⁠—Agh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the birches are mad, mad with their green.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world is gone, torn into shreds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with this blessing. What have I left undone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that I should have undertaken</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O my brother, you redfaced, living man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>ignorant, stupid whose feet are upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>this same dirt that I touch⁠—and eat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are alone in this terror, alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>face to face on this road, you and I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>wrapped by this flame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let the polished plows stay idle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>their gloss already on the black soil.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that face of yours⁠—!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Answer me. I will clutch you. I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>will hug you, grip you. I will poke my face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into your face and force you to see me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take me in your arms, tell me the commonest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>thing that is in your mind to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>say anything. I will understand you⁠—!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is the madness of the birch leaves opening</span>
					<br/>
					<span>cold, one by one.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My rooms will receive me. But my rooms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>are no longer sweet spaces where comfort</span>
					<br/>
					<span>is ready to wait on me with its crumbs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A darkness has brushed them. The mass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of yellow tulips in the bowl is shrunken.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every familiar object is changed and dwarfed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am shaken, broken against a might</span>
					<br/>
					<span>that splits comfort, blows apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>my careful partitions, crushes my house</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and leaves me⁠—with shrinking heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and startled, empty eyes⁠—peering out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>into a cold world.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the spring I would drink! In the spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would be drunk and lie forgetting all things.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your face! Give me your face, Yang Kue Fei!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>your hands, your lips to drink!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give me your wrists to drink⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I drag you, I am drowned in you, you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>overwhelm me! Drink!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save me! The shad bush is in the edge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of the clearing. The yards in a fury</span>
					<br/>
					<span>of lilac blossoms are driving me mad with terror.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drink and lie forgetting the world.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And coldly the birch leaves are opening one by one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coldly I observe them and wait for the end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it ends.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-lonely-street" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Lonely Street</h3>
				<p>
					<span>School is over. It is too hot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to walk at ease. At ease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in light frocks they walk the streets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to while the time away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They have grown tall. They hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>pink flames in their right hands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In white from head to foot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with sidelong, idle look⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in yellow, floating stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>black sash and stockings⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>touching their avid mouths</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with pink sugar on a stick⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>like a carnation each holds in her hand⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>they mount the lonely street.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-great-figure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Great Figure</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Among the rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and lights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw the figure 5</span>
					<br/>
					<span>in gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>on a red</span>
					<br/>
					<span>firetruck</span>
					<br/>
					<span>moving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>with weight and urgency</span>
					<br/>
					<span>tense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>unheeded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>to gong clangs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>siren howls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>and wheels rumbling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>through the dark city.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
