<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body>
		<section id="poetry" epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">

<h2><a name="Postlude" id="Postlude"></a>Postlude</h2>
<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Now that I have cooled to you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Let there be gold of tarnished masonry,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Temples soothed by the sun to ruin<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That sleep utterly.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Give me hand for the dances,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ripples at Philae, in and out,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And lips, my Lesbian,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Wall flowers that once were flame.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Your hair is my Carthage<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And my arms the bow,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And our words arrows<br /></span>
<span class="i0">To shoot the stars<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Who from that misty sea<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Swarm to destroy us.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">But you there beside me—<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Oh how shall I defy you,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Who wound me in the night<br /></span>
<span class="i0">With breasts shining<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Like Venus and like Mars?<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The night that is shouting Jason<br /></span>
<span class="i0">When the loud eaves rattle<br /></span>
<span class="i0">As with waves above me<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Blue at the prow of my desire.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_9" id="Page_9">[Pg 9]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="First_Praise" id="First_Praise"></a>First Praise</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Lady of dusk wood fastnesses,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Thou art my Lady.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">I have known the crisp splintering leaf-tread with thee on before,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">White, slender through green saplings;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">I have lain by thee on the grey forest floor<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Beside thee, my Lady.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Lady of rivers strewn with stones,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Only thou art my Lady.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Where thousand the freshets are crowded like peasants to a fair;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Clear skinned, wild from seclusion,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">They jostle white armed down the tent-bordered thoroughfare<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Praising my Lady.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_10" id="Page_10">[Pg 10]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Homage" id="Homage"></a>Homage</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Elvira, by love's grace<br /></span>
<span class="i0">There goeth before you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">A clear radiance<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Which maketh all vain souls<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Candles when noon is.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The loud clangour of pretenders<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Melteth before you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Like the roll of carts passing,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">But you come silently<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And homage is given.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Now the little by-path<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Which leadeth to love<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Is again joyful with its many;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And the great highway<br /></span>
<span class="i0">From love<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Is without passers.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_11" id="Page_11">[Pg 11]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="The_Fools_Song" id="The_Fools_Song"></a>The Fool's Song</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I tried to put a bird in a cage.<br /></span>
<span class="i2">O fool that I am!<br /></span>
<span class="i1">For the bird was Truth.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Sing merrily, Truth: I tried to put<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Truth in a cage!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And when I had the bird in the cage,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">O fool that I am!<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Why, it broke my pretty cage.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Sing merrily, Truth; I tried to put<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Truth in a cage!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And when the bird was flown from the cage,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">O fool that I am!<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Why, I had nor bird nor cage.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Sing merrily, Truth: I tried to put<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Truth in a cage!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Heigh-ho! Truth in a cage.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_12" id="Page_12">[Pg 12]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="From_The_Birth_of_Venus_Song" id="From_The_Birth_of_Venus_Song"></a>From "The Birth of Venus," Song</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">Come with us and play!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">See, we have breasts as women!<br /></span>
<span class="i2">From your tents by the sea<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Come play with us: it is forbidden!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">Come with us and play!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Lo, bare, straight legs in the water!<br /></span>
<span class="i2">By our boats we stay,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Then swimming away<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Come to us: it is forbidden!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">Come with us and play!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">See, we are tall as women!<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Our eyes are keen:<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Our hair is bright:<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Our voices speak outright:<br /></span>
<span class="i0">We revel in the sea's green!<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Come play:<br /></span>
<span class="i2">It is forbidden!<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_13" id="Page_13">[Pg 13]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Immortal" id="Immortal"></a>Immortal</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Yes, there is one thing braver than all flowers;<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Richer than clear gems; wider than the sky;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Immortal and unchangeable; whose powers<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Transcend reason, love and sanity!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">And thou, beloved, art that godly thing!<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Marvellous and terrible; in glance<br /></span>
<span class="i0">An injured Juno roused against Heaven's King!<br /></span>
<span class="i2">And thy name, lovely One, is Ignorance.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_14" id="Page_14">[Pg 14]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Mezzo_Forte" id="Mezzo_Forte"></a>Mezzo Forte</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Take that, damn you; and that!<br /></span>
<span class="i4">And here's a rose<br /></span>
<span class="i2">To make it right again!<br /></span>
<span class="i4">God knows<br /></span>
<span class="i2">I'm sorry, Grace; but then,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">It's not my fault if you will be a cat.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_15" id="Page_15">[Pg 15]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="An_After_Song" id="An_After_Song"></a>An After Song</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">So art thou broken in upon me, Apollo,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Through a splendour of purple garments—<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Held by the yellow-haired Clymène<br /></span>
<span class="i1">To clothe the white of thy shoulders—<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Bare from the day's leaping of horses.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">This is strange to me, here in the modern twilight.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_16" id="Page_16">[Pg 16]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Crude_Lament" id="Crude_Lament"></a>Crude Lament</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i1">Mother of flames,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The men that went ahunting<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Are asleep in the snow drifts.<br /></span>
<span class="i1">You have kept the fire burning!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Crooked fingers that pull<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Fuel from among the wet leaves,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Mother of flames<br /></span>
<span class="i1">You have kept the fire burning!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The young wives have fallen asleep<br /></span>
<span class="i0">With wet hair, weeping,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Mother of flames!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The young men raised the heavy spears<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And are gone prowling in the darkness.<br /></span>
<span class="i1">O mother of flames,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">You who have kept the fire burning!<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Lo, I am helpless!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Would God they had taken me with them!<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_17" id="Page_17">[Pg 17]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="The_Ordeal" id="The_Ordeal"></a>The Ordeal</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">O Crimson salamander,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Because of love's whim<br /></span>
<span class="i10">sacred!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Swim<br /></span>
<span class="i2">the winding flame<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Predestined to disman him<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And bring our fellow home to us again.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">Swim in with watery fang,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Gnaw out and drown<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The fire roots that circle him<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Until the Hell-flower dies down<br /></span>
<span class="i2">And he comes home again.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">Aye, bring him home,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">O crimson salamander,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That I may see he is unchanged with burning—<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Then have your will with him,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">O crimson salamander.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_18" id="Page_18">[Pg 18]</a></span></p>
<h2>The Death of Franco of Cologne:<br />
His Prophecy of Beethoven</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">It is useless, good woman, useless: the spark fails me.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">God! yet when the might of it all assails me<br /></span>
<span class="i0">It seems impossible that I cannot do it.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Yet I cannot. They were right, and they all knew it<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Years ago, but I—never! I have persisted<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Blindly (they say) and now I am old. I have resisted<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Everything, but now, now the strife's ended.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The fire's out; the old cloak has been mended<br /></span>
<span class="i0">For the last time, the soul peers through its tatters.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Put a light by and leave me; nothing more matters<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Now; I am done; I am at last well broken!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Yet, by God, I'll still leave them a token<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That they'll swear it was no dead man writ it;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">A morsel that they'll mark well the day they bit it,<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_19" id="Page_19">[Pg 19]</a></span><br /></span>
<span class="i0">That there'll be sand between their gross teeth to crunch yet<br /></span>
<span class="i0">When goodman Gabriel blows his concluding trumpet.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Leave me!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And now, little black eyes, come you out here!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ah, you've given me a lively, lasting bout, year<br /></span>
<span class="i0">After year to win you round me darlings!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Precious children, little gambollers! "farlings"<br /></span>
<span class="i0">They might have called you once, "nearlings"<br /></span>
<span class="i0">I call you now, I, first of all the yearlings,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Upon this plain, for I it was that tore you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Out of chaos! It was I bore you!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ah, you little children that go playing<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Over the five-barred gate, and will still be straying<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Spite of all that I have ever told you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Of counterpoint and cadence which does not hold you—<br /></span>
<span class="i0">No more than chains will for this or that strange reason,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">But you're always at some new loving treason<br /></span>
<span class="i0">To be away from me, laughing, mocking,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Witlessly, perhaps, but for all that forever knocking<br /></span>
<span class="i0">At this stanchion door of your poor father's heart till—oh, well<br /></span>
<span class="i0">At least you've shown that you can grow well<br /></span>
<span class="i0">However much you evade me faster, faster.<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_20" id="Page_20">[Pg 20]</a></span><br /></span>
<span class="i0">But, black eyes, some day you'll get a master,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">For he will come! He shall, he must come!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And when he finishes and the burning dust from<br /></span>
<span class="i0">His wheels settles—what shall men see then?<br /></span>
<span class="i0">You, you, you, my own lovely children!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Aye, all of you, thus with hands together<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Playing on the hill or there in a tether,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Or running free, but all mine! Aye, my very namesakes<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Shall be his proper fame's stakes.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And he shall lead you!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And he shall meed you!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And he shall build you gold palaces!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And he shall wine you from clear chalices!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">For I have seen it! I have seen it<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Written where the world-clouds screen it<br /></span>
<span class="i0">From other eyes<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Over the bronze gates of paradise!<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_21" id="Page_21">[Pg 21]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Portent" id="Portent"></a>Portent</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Red cradle of the night,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">In you<br /></span>
<span class="i4">The dusky child<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Sleeps fast till his might<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Shall be piled<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Sinew on sinew.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Red cradle of the night,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">The dusky child<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Sleeping sits upright.<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Lo how<br /></span>
<span class="i4">The winds blow now!<br /></span>
<span class="i1">He pillows back;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The winds are again mild.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">When he stretches his arms out,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Red cradle of the night,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">The alarms shout<br /></span>
<span class="i0">From bare tree to tree,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Wild<br /></span>
<span class="i4">In afright!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Mighty shall he be,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Red cradle of the night,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">The dusky child!!<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_22" id="Page_22">[Pg 22]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Con_Brio" id="Con_Brio"></a>Con Brio</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Miserly, is the best description of that poor fool<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Who holds Lancelot to have been a morose fellow,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Dolefully brooding over the events which had naturally to follow<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The high time of his deed with Guinevere.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">He has a sick historical sight, if I judge rightly,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">To believe any such thing as that ever occurred.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">But, by the god of blood, what else is it that has deterred<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Us all from an out and out defiance of fear<br /></span>
<span class="i0">But this same perdamnable miserliness,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Which cries about our necks how we shall have less and less<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Than we have now if we spend too wantonly?<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Bah, this sort of slither is below contempt!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">In the same vein we should have apple trees exempt<br /></span>
<span class="i0">From bearing anything but pink blossoms all the year,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Fixed permanent lest their bellies wax unseemly, and the dear<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Innocent days of them be wasted quite.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">How can we have less? Have we not the deed?<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Lancelot thought little, spent his gold and rode to fight<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Mounted, if God was willing, on a good steed.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_23" id="Page_23">[Pg 23]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Ad_Infinitum" id="Ad_Infinitum"></a>Ad Infinitum</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i1">Still I bring flowers<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Although you fling them at my feet<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Until none stays<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That is not struck across with wounds:<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Flowers and flowers<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That you may break them utterly<br /></span>
<span class="i1">As you have always done.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i1">Sure happily<br /></span>
<span class="i0">I still bring flowers, flowers,<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Knowing how all<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Are crumpled in your praise<br /></span>
<span class="i1">And may not live<br /></span>
<span class="i0">To speak a lesser thing.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_24" id="Page_24">[Pg 24]</a></span></p>

<h2>Translations from the Spanish,<br />
"El Romancero"</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i9">I<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">Although you do your best to regard me<br /></span>
<span class="i2">With an air seeming offended,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Never can you deny, when all's ended,<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Calm eyes, that you <i>did</i> regard me.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">However much you're at pains to<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Offend me, by which I may suffer,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">What offence is there can make up for<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The great good he finds who attains you?<br /></span>
<span class="i0">For though with mortal fear you reward me,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Until my sorry sense is plenished,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Never can you deny, when all's ended,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Calm eyes, that you did regard me.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Thinking thus to dismay me<br /></span>
<span class="i0">You beheld me with disdain,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">But instead of destroying the gain,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">In fact with doubled good you paid me.<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_25" id="Page_25">[Pg 25]</a></span><br /></span>
<span class="i0">For though you show them how hardly<br /></span>
<span class="i0">They keep off from leniency bended,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Never can you deny, when all's ended,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Calm eyes, that you did regard me.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i6">II<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Ah, little green eyes,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ah, little eyes of mine,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ah, Heaven be willing<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That you think of me somewise.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The day of departure<br /></span>
<span class="i0">You came full of grieving<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And to see I was leaving<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The tears 'gan to start sure<br /></span>
<span class="i0">With the heavy torture<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Of sorrows unbrightened<br /></span>
<span class="i0">When you lie down at night and<br /></span>
<span class="i0">When there to you dreams rise,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ah, Heaven be willing<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That you think of me somewise.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Deep is my assurance<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Of you, little green eyes,<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_26" id="Page_26">[Pg 26]</a></span><br /></span>
<span class="i0">That in truth you realise<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Something of my durance<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Eyes of hope's fair assurance<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And good premonition<br /></span>
<span class="i0">By virtue of whose condition<br /></span>
<span class="i0">All green colours I prize.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ah, Heaven be willing<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That you think of me somewise.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Would God I might know you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">To which quarter bended<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And why comprehended<br /></span>
<span class="i0">When sighings overflow you,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And if you must go through<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Some certain despair,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">For that you lose his care<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Who was faithful always.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ah, Heaven be willing<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That you think of me these days.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Through never a moment<br /></span>
<span class="i0">I've known how to live lest<br /></span>
<span class="i0">All my thoughts but as one pressed<br /></span>
<span class="i0">You-ward for their concernment.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">May God send chastisement<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_27" id="Page_27">[Pg 27]</a></span><br /></span>
<span class="i0">If in this I belie me<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And if it truth be<br /></span>
<span class="i0">My own little green eyes.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ah, Heaven be willing<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That you think of me somewise.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i6">III<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Poplars of the meadow,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Fountains of Madrid,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Now I am absent from you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">All are slandering me.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Each of you is telling<br /></span>
<span class="i0">How evil my chance is<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The wind among the branches,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The fountains in their welling<br /></span>
<span class="i0">To every one telling<br /></span>
<span class="i0">You were happy to see.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Now I am absent from you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">All are slandering me.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">With good right I may wonder<br /></span>
<span class="i0">For that at my last leaving<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_28" id="Page_28">[Pg 28]</a></span><br /></span>
<span class="i0">The plants with sighs heaving<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And the waters in tears were.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That you played double, never<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Thought I this could be,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Now I am absent from you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">All are slandering me.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">There full in your presence<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Music you sought to waken,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Later I'm forsaken<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Since you are ware of my absence.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">God, wilt Thou give me patience<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Here while suffer I ye,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Now I am absent from you<br /></span>
<span class="i0">All are slandering me.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i6">IV<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The day draweth nearer,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And morrow ends our meeting,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ere they take thee sleeping<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Be up—away, my treasure!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Soft, leave her breasts all unheeded,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Far hence though the master still remaineth!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">For soon uptil our earth regaineth<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The sun all embraces dividing.<span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_29" id="Page_29">[Pg 29]</a></span><br /></span>
<span class="i0">N'er grew pleasure all unimpeded,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">N'er was delight lest passion won,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And to the wise man the fit occasion<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Has not yet refused a full measure:<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Be up—away, my treasure!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">If that my love thy bosom inflameth<br /></span>
<span class="i0">With honest purpose and just intention,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">To free me from my soul's contention<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Give over joys the day shameth;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Who thee lameth he also me lameth,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And my good grace builds all in thy good grace;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Be up—away! Fear leaveth place,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That thou art here, no more unto pleasure,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Be up—away, my treasure!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Although thou with a sleep art wresting,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">'Tis rightful thou bringst it close,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That of the favour one meeting shows<br /></span>
<span class="i0">An hundred may hence be attesting.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">'Tis fitting too thou shouldst be mindful<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That the ease which we lose now, in kind, full<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Many a promise holds for our leisure;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Ere they take thee sleeping;<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Be up—away, my treasure!<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_30" id="Page_30">[Pg 30]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Hic_Jacet" id="Hic_Jacet"></a>Hic Jacet</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The coroner's merry little children<br /></span>
<span class="i2">Have such twinkling brown eyes.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Their father is not of gay men<br /></span>
<span class="i1">And their mother jocular in no wise,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Yet the coroner's merry little children<br /></span>
<span class="i4">Laugh so easily.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">They laugh because they prosper.<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Fruit for them is upon all branches.<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Lo! how they jibe at loss, for<br /></span>
<span class="i1">Kind heaven fills their little paunches!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">It's the coroner's merry, merry children<br /></span>
<span class="i4">Who laugh so easily.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_31" id="Page_31">[Pg 31]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="Contemporania" id="Contemporania"></a>Contemporania</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The corner of a great rain<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Steamy with the country<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Has fallen upon my garden.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">I go back and forth now<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And the little leaves follow me<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Talking of the great rain,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Of branches broken,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And the farmer's curses!<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">But I go back and forth<br /></span>
<span class="i0">In this corner of a garden<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And the green shoots follow me<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Praising the great rain.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">We are not curst together,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The leaves and I,<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Framing devices, flower devices<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And other ways of peopling<br /></span>
<span class="i0">The barren country.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Truly it was a very great rain<br /></span>
<span class="i0">That makes the little leaves follow me.<br /></span>
</div></div>



<hr style="width: 65%;" /><p><span class="pagenum"><a name="Page_32" id="Page_32">[Pg 32]</a></span></p>
<h2><a name="To_wish_Myself_Courage" id="To_wish_Myself_Courage"></a>To wish Myself Courage</h2>


<div class="poem"><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">On the day when youth is no more upon me<br /></span>
<span class="i0">I will write of the leaves and the moon in a tree top!<br /></span>
<span class="i0">I will sing then the song, long in the making—<br /></span>
<span class="i0">When the stress of youth is put away from me.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">How can I ever be written out as men say?<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Surely it is merely an interference with the long song—<br /></span>
<span class="i0">This that I am now doing.<br /></span>
</div><div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">But when the spring of it is worn like the old moon<br /></span>
<span class="i0">And the eaten leaves are lace upon the cold earth—<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Then I will rise up in my great desire—<br /></span>
<span class="i0">Long at the birth—and sing me the youth-song!<br /></span>
</div></div>


		</section>
	</body>
</html>

